# .Assign/Unassign IP Address to User v7.1PrivateBeta

You can assign and and unassign IP addresses to users from the network overview page.

You can assign and unassign IP addresses from shared networks only.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Assign IP Address to User

You can assign an IP address or several IP addresses to a particular user, so that they could create a VS based on it:

1.  Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Networks** icon. The page that loads shows the shared networks in your cloud.
3.  Click the name (label) of the network from which you wish to assign an IP address to a user.
4.  Click the ** **Assign IP addresses** button.
5.  On the window that pops up, select the following parameters:
    -   *IP net* - select from the drop-down list the IP net from which the IP address should be assigned
    -   *IP range* - select from the drop-down list the IP range from which the IP address should be assigned
    -   *User* - select from the drop-down list the user to whom you wish to assign IP addresses
    -   *Selection* - type in the IP address you wish to assign and click **Add**. You can assign multiple IPs from the same form by filling in an address in the *Selection* field, clicking **Add** and repeating the process for all the required IPs.
        You can assign a range of IPs by typing them in one of the following formats: 192.168.128.11-20, 192.168.128.11-192.168.128.20 or 192.168.128.11/30. If one or several IPs from the range are assigned to a different user or to VSs that do not belong to the required user, the IP range will not be assigned.
        The IP addresses and ranges that are to be assigned appear in the *IP Addresses* field. If you wish to modify an address or range, select it in the *IP Addresses* field, make the necessary changes in the *Selection* field and click **Modify.**
    -   *IP Addresses* - IPs and ranges that are to be assigned. You can remove the unnecessary addresses or ranges by selecting them and clicking **Remove**. 

        Currently, assigning multiple IPs to a user works only with IPv4.

6.  Click the **Assign** button.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Unassign IP Address from User

You can unassign an IP Address from a particular user at any time:

1.  Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Networks** icon.
3.  Click the name (label) of the network from which you wish unassign an IP address.
4.  Click the* ***Unassign IP addresses** button.
5.  On the window that pops up, select the following parameters:
    -   *User* - select from the drop-down list the user/s from which you wish to unassign the IP address
    -   *IP addresses* - select from the drop-down list one or more IP addresses you wish to unassign from a user

6.  Click the **Unassign** button.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


