# .Backup Server Zones Settings v7.1PrivateBeta

The Backup server zones feature can be used to create different tiers of service – for example, by organizing backup servers in the cloud into different backup server zones. You can also specify limits and prices individually for each Backup Server Zone assigned to the Bucket. For general information on how backups work, where they are stored, the types of backups, refer to Virtual Server Backups section of this guide.

Backup server zones have types which are inherited by the backup servers in the zone. Later backup servers can be attached to a compute resource/compute zone of the same type. Backup servers can be moved from one backup server zone to another, but the zones should be of the same type. For more information refer to Zone Types. Backups server zones can have either the Virtual or the Smart type. 

A backup server zone consists of several backup servers that share the same user permissions. Backup server zones can be used for organizing and managing backup servers and creating different tiers of servers for customers. You can also specify limits and prices individually for each backup server zone assigned to the bucket. Backup server zones have types which are inherited by the backup servers in the zone. You may select the type during backup server zone creation process. To learn more about backup servers refer to [Backup Servers](.Backup_Servers_Settings_v7.1PrivateBeta) section of this guide.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Create Backup Server Zone

To create a new backup server zone:

1.  Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu and click the **Backup Server Zones** icon.
2.  On the screen that appears, click the **Create New Backup Zone** button at the bottom of the list.
3.  On the screen that follows:
    -   *Label* - give your backup server zone a name.
    -   *Server type* - select the server type for the zone, it can be either Virtual or Smart. The zone's type cannot be changed after the zone is created.
    -   *Location group* - select the location group you wish to assign this backup server zone to from the drop-down list.

4.  Click the **Save** button.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit Backup Server Zone

To edit a backup server zone:

1.  Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Backup Server Zones **icon.
3.  Click the **Actions** button next to the backup server zone, then click **Edit** to change the zone's label and location group. You can change the already assigned location only if there are no backups or templates stores on backup servers of the current zone.
4.  Click **Save*.***

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Add Backup Server to Backup Server Zone

To attach a backup server to the backup server zone:

1.  Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu and click the **Backup Server Zones** icon.
2.  Click the label of the zone you want to attach a backup server to. On the screen that appears you will see the list of all backup servers in the cloud organized into two groups – those already assigned to this backup server zone and those that are unassigned.
3.  Choose an unassigned backup server and click the **Add** icon next to it.

    When you add a backup server to a backup server zone, the backup server inherits the zone's type. For more information refer to [Zone Types](.Zone_Types_v7.1PrivateBeta).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Remove Backup Server From Backup Server Zone

To remove a backup server to the backup server zone:

1.  Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings **menu and click the **Backup Server Zones **icon.
2.  Click the label of the zone you want to remove a backup server from. On the screen that appears you will see the list of all backup servers in the cloud organized into two groups – those already assigned to this backup server zone and those that are unassigned.
3.  In the assigned list, find the backup server you want to remove, and click the **Delete** icon next to it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Delete Backup Server Zone

To delete a backup server zone:

1.  Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu
2.  Click the **Backup Server Zones** icon.
3.  Click the **Actions** button next to the zone you want to remove, then click **Delete**. You will be asked to confirm deletion.


