# .Backup Server Backups v7.1PrivateBeta

The choice of a specific backup server on which a backup will be performed is called backup server balancing.

Previously when you sent a command to take a backup, the system would schedule a corresponding transaction at a specific backup server. This transaction would be pending until its queue came up. However, if the backup server was very loaded, offline, or somehow not available, this transaction would take very long, or even should be restarted manually.

Now, with Backup Server Balancing, when the transaction is launched, the system will reassign it to the most appropriate backup server. 

OnApp supports the [incremental](#id-.BackupServerBackupsv7.1PrivateBeta-incr_backup) backup type.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Incremental Backups

The system will follow the sequence below to take a backup:

1.  Check which backup servers are assigned to this location group 
2.  Which of them are available to the user
3.  Which of those have enough space 
4.  From those remaining, the most appropriate backup server will be the one with the smallest count of "take backup" transactions at the moment of the check
5.  If for several backup  servers this quantity is equal (0, 1, 2, ...n), the backup server with the lowest load (highest *cpu\_idle* parameter) will be selected as the most appropriate

All consequent backups will be performed at the same backup server as long as it is available and has enough storage space. If not - the alternative backup server will be selected following the principle described above.  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Manage Backups for Backup Server

To manage backups for a backup server:

Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt;** Settings** menu and click the **Backup Servers** icon. 
On the screen that appears, you'll see the list of all backup servers currently set up in the cloud. Click the label of the specific backup server. You will get the list of backups on this backup server together with their details:
-   *Date *- the date of the backup creation
-   *Target *- the backup target
-   *Status* - the status of the backup
-   *Backup Size* - the backup size
-   *Initiated* - the way how the backup was created
-   *Backup Server* - the label of the backup server, where backup is created
-   *Note *- the text of the additional note
-   *VS* - the label of VS, where backup is created
-   *Customer* - the owner of the VS, where backup is created
-   *Actions* icon - the actions you can perform with the backup ([Convert to template](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Backups_v7.1PrivateBeta), [Delete](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Backups_v7.1PrivateBeta), [Edit Note](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Backups_v7.1PrivateBeta)).

------------------------------------------------------------------------


