# .Compute Resources v7.1PrivateBeta

Compute resources are KVM platforms running on bare metal with CentOS Linux as the management operating system or VMware ESXi servers. They are used to provide hardware resources for virtual servers ensuring highly efficient use of available hardware and complete isolation of virtual server processes. Each virtual server in the cloud is hosted by a specific physical сompute resource server, from which it receives CPU time, RAM, and storage capacity from the data stores attached to that сompute resource. OnApp supports multiple сompute resource platforms including KVM and VMware.

We strongly recommend that you avoid adding CloudBoot and static сompute resources to one сompute zone.

Compute resources have types that they inherit from the zone to which they belong. These types also define the type of resources (data stores, networks, and backup servers) that can be associated with a compute zone or compute resource. Compute resources can be later moved from one compute zone to another, but the zones should be of the same type. For more information, refer to [Zone Types](.Zone_Types_v7.1PrivateBeta). The table below demonstrates the available compute zone types for different compute resources:

| Compute Resource Type | Compute Zone Type |
|-----------------------|-------------------|
| KVM                   | Virtual           
                                            
                         Smart              |
| VMware                | Virtual           |
| VMware Cloud Director | VPC               |

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Compute Resource Features

-   Provide system resources such as CPU, memory, and network to virtual servers
-   Control the virtual differentiation of entities such as virtual servers and application data being delivered to cloud-based applications
-   Take care of secure virtualization and channeling of storage, data communications, and server processing
-   Can be located in different geographical zones
-   Can have different CPU and RAM

Compute resources can also be organized into сompute zones that make it easy to offer tiered service levels and create private clouds for specific users.

Compute resources can be dynamically booted over the network using the CloudBoot technology, or statically installed from a CentOS base. Note that enabling the OnApp storage platform requires сompute resources to be provisioned using the CloudBoot interface. Refer to the **[CloudBoot Compute Resources](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.CloudBoot+Compute+Resources+v6.5)** section for details.

When a сompute resource is inaccessible for a period of time, commands queued during that period of time will be marked as failed. This is expected OnApp behavior.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Compute Resource Management

The main Compute Resources section in the left Control Panel menu provides access to basic tools for viewing, editing, and rebooting compute resources.

Tools for advanced compute resource management and controlling сompute zones are located on the Settings menu in Control Panel (Settings &gt; Compute Resources, and Settings &gt; Compute Resource Zones). For details, refer to the [Compute Resources](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Compute+Resources+v6.5) section of this guide.
