# .Compute Resource Extended CPU Configuration v7.1PrivateBeta

OnApp provides a possibility to use extended CPU configuration to group compute resources with similar CPU performance characteristics into compute zones. The extended CPU configuration is implemented on a per-compute-zone basis. The compute zone with the extended CPU configuration is automatically assigned to a CPU model with a set of default and additional CPU flags. On the compute resource level, you can view the CPU model and the list of default, additional and unmatching CPU flags.  **
**

The extended CPU configuration is applicable only to KVM compute resources.

For more information on the extended CPU configuration of the compute resource, refer to the following sections. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Prerequisites

The extended CPU configuration is managed per compute zone and each compute resource assigned to the zone inherits CPU model and CPU flags from the compute zone.

To use the extended CPU configuration:

1.  Move the *Extended CPU Flags* switcher to the right while **[creating](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Manage+Compute+Zones+v6.8) **or **[editing](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Manage+Compute+Zones+v6.8) **a compute zone. After this functionality is enabled for the compute zone, all compute resources in this zone are automatically attached to a CPU model with a set of default and additional CPU flags. The CPU model is selected based on the CPU characteristics common for each compute resource assigned to this zone.

    When you add a new compute resource to a compute zone with extended CPU configuration, wait for CPU flags to be updated after all the related transactions are finished.

2.  Manage the extended CPU configuration for a compute zone. For more information, refer to the [Compute Zone Extended CPU Configuration](.Compute_Zone_Extended_CPU_Configuration_v7.1PrivateBeta) section of this guide.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Compute Resource CPU Flags

To view the list of extended CPU flags of a compute resource:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Admin &gt; Settings menu.
2.  On the following page, click the Compute Resources icon.
3.  Click the label of the compute resource you are interested in.
4.  On the page that appears, click the Actions button, point to Resource Options, and select Extended CPU Configuration.
5.  On the page that follows, you will see the following information on the extended CPU configuration:

-   -   CPU Model Configuration - provides a label of a CPU model set for this compute resource, as well as the list of default CPU flags. You cannot edit the list of default CPU flags

    -   CPU Blacklisted Flags - lists CPU flags which a virtual server should skip when starting. You can add a CPU flag to the CPU Blacklisted Flags table using the info\_hub.xml file. CPU blacklisted flags are set up at the cloud level

    -   Additional CPU Flags - includes the list of additional CPU flags available for each compute resource in this zone. The enabled CPU flags are displayed in green boxes and the disabled CPU flags are dimmed. You can edit the list of additional CPU flags at Settings &gt; Compute Zones &gt; compute zone label &gt; Actions &gt; Resource Options &gt; Extended CPU Configuration

    -   *Unmatching CPU Flags* - lists CPU flags that are available for the current compute resource but cannot be enabled for the entire compute zone as they are not available for each of the compute resources in this zone

        If there are some unmatching CPU flags, consider assigning a compute resource to another compute zone, where a CPU model would correspond to the actual CPU performance of the compute resource.

To keep your blacklisted CPU flag list after your Control Panel is updated, you need to create an info\_hub.local.yml file and add the cpu\_blacklisted\_flags section to this file.


