# .Control Panel Recipe Settings v7.1PrivateBeta

Recipes are sets of instructions that are triggered during the certain stages of events defined. By managing recipes via the **Settings** menu, you can assign recipes to the control panel server.

To manage this functionality, make sure that you have the *Manage recipes for Control Panel* [permission](.OnApp_Permissions_v7.1PrivateBeta) enabled.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Assign Recipe

To manage Control Panel recipes settings:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu and click the **Recipes** icon.
2.  On the screen that appears, you will see the details of all recipes in the cloud:
    -   The left pane shows the list of all recipes in the cloud organized into recipe groups.
    -   The right pane displays the list of control panel events to which the recipes can be assigned to.

3.  Drag and drop recipe to assign it to a desired control panel event:
    1.  Click the arrow button in front of the required event to unfold it.
    2.  Select the required recipe in the left pane and hold it down with the left mouse button.
    3.  Drag the recipe up to the right pane and release the mouse button to drop the recipe and add it to the required event.

You can assign recipes to the following events:

-   *KVM compute resource goes online* - run the recipe when the KVM compute resource comes online
-   *KVM compute resource goes offline* - run the recipe when the KVM compute resource goes offline
-   *VMware compute resource goes online* - run the recipe when the VMware compute resource comes online
-   *VMware compute resource goes offline* - run the recipe when the VMware compute resource goes offline

    The recipe will be triggered when the statistics are not received from a compute resource for a certain period of time for some reason. If the compute resource is offline, the recipe will not run.

-   *Compute resource added* - run the recipe when the new compute resource is added
-   *Compute resource removed* - run the recipe when compute resource is removed
-   *VS Provisioning* - run the recipe during VS provisioning
-   *VS Network rebuild *- run the recipe when rebuilding a network
-   *VS Disk added* - run the recipe when adding a disk
-   *VS Network Interface added* - run the recipe when adding a network interface
-   *VS Disk resized* - run the recipe when resizing a VS disk
-   *VS Resize* - run the recipe when resizing a VS

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Delete Recipe

1.  Click the arrow button in front of the required event to view the list of recipes assigned to it.
2.  Click the **Delete** button next to the recipe you want to remove.


