# .Configure Resource Allocation and Prices v7.1PrivateBeta

Buckets enable you to set up resource allocation and pricing separately. They are subdivided into two tabs:

-   *[Access Control](#id-.ConfigureResourceAllocationandPricesv7.1PrivateBeta-ac)* - in this section you configure the resources allocation for the users under this bucket. If you assign a bucket to a user, that user will have access only to those resources which you have added to the bucket. If no resources are added to a section of the Access Control, e.g. compute zones, the user under the bucket will not have access to any of the compute zones in the cloud.

-   [*Rate Card* ](#id-.ConfigureResourceAllocationandPricesv7.1PrivateBeta-rc)- in this section you set up prices for the resources and the amount of resources users can request for free. Users under the bucket will be billed according to the prices you configure in the Rate Card.

These tabs are further subdivided into sections that depend on the server types of resources you have in the cloud:  

-   Virtual - the server type under which KVM or CloudBoot compute, data store, network and backup server zones of the virtual server type can be created 

-   Other - the resources that relate to the system and do not have a server type. This section includes backup resource zones, template store, edge groups, recipe groups, and service add-on groups.

For convenience, you can duplicate resources from the Access Control to the Rate Card and vice versa. When adding a resource to the Access Control tick the **Duplicate to rate card **checkbox and the resource will be added to the Rate Card with no prices and free limits by default. Similarly, when adding a resource to the Rate Card tick the **Duplicate to access control** checkbox box and the resource will be added to the access control with no limits by default.

Be careful when deleting or editing resources in buckets assigned to users or user groups and which have been used to build servers, as any changes will affect these servers. For example, if you have a server running on a template and the template's store is removed from the bucket, the server will remain running but it will not be possible to edit it. Therefore, we advise you to clone the required bucket and make the necessary changes in the cloned version.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Configure Access Control

Access control is used to manage user’s resource availability. For the newly created bucket, the Access Control is empty, and that means that no resources are available to a user to whom this bucket is assigned. To make compute, disk space, or networking resources available, add the corresponding zones to a bucket. 

-   If you do not add resources to a section of Access Control, e.g. compute zone, the user under this bucket will not have access to any of the compute zones in the cloud.
-   If you remove a template store or compute/data store/network/backup server zone from the user's Access Control, it will not be possible to edit the resources of the user's servers running in this zone(s).

To manage the resources allocation:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Admin &gt; Buckets menu.

2.  Click a label of a bucket. You will be redirected to the Access Control tab of the bucket.

3.  Click an icon to select the required server type and add resources as follows: 

-   -   Click **+** button in the appropriate box.
    -   When the new windows pops up, set limits for resources (see the table below for reference).
    -   Select as many compute zones as you need to set the same limits for all resources of the following types:
        -   *Compute zone resource* 
        -   *Data store zone resource*

        -   *Network zone resource *

        -   *Backup server zone resource*

            After you submit changes, you can edit limits for any zone resource in the bucket.

        -   Select the **Duplicate to rate card** checkbox if you want to set free limits and prices for the resources.

Virtual Server Type

Resource Type
Resource Name

Values

Description

Miscellaneous

Virtual Servers

Max

The maximum number of virtual servers users can create in the cloud. This parameter affects the number of virtual servers, VSs in Federation, and load balancers users can create.

Leave the '-' value to set an unlimited amount of VSs available to users under this bucket.

Templates, ISO's & Backups Storage
Max
The total amount of disk space (GB) users can request for storing their backups, ISOs, and templates under this bucket.

The *Templates, ISOs & Backup Storage* limit will apply only if you use compute resources for disk-related actions in your cloud. 

Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited amount of disk space for storing backups, ISOs, and OVAs under this bucket.

Templates
Max
The maximum number of templates that users can create in the cloud.
The disk space available for templates is defined by the Templates, ISO's & Backups Storage limit.

You can set prices per template per hour in the bucket's Rate Card.

Leave the '-' value to let a user create an unlimited amount of templates under this bucket.

Autoscaling
Max
The maximum number of VSs for which the user can enable autoscaling under this bucket. After this number runs out, the user will not be able to switch on autoscaling for the next VSs.

Leave the '-' value to let a user apply autoscaling to an unlimited amount of VSs under this bucket.

Backups
Max
The maximum number of backups (both manual and auto-backups) users can create under this bucket. Make sure that Backups max limit is no less than the rotation period or it will prevent auto-backups from creating. If the Backups max limit equals the rotation period, then one more auto-backup will be created to replace the existing one.

The disk space available for backups is defined by the Templates, ISO's & Backups Storage limit.The Backups limit will apply only if you use compute resources for disk-related actions in your cloud. 

Leave the '-' value to let a user create an unlimited amount of backups under this bucket.

If there are backup servers in your cloud:

-   set the *Backup server zone limits* in the bucket as required.
-   set the *Backups* max limit in the Miscellaneous section of the Access Control to 0 to prevent creating both manual and auto-backups on compute resources.

ISO templates
Max
The maximum number of ISO templates users can create under this bucket.

The disk space available for ISO templates is defined by the Templates, ISO's & Backups Storage limit.

Leave the '-' value to let a user create an unlimited amount of ISO templates under this bucket.

Application Servers

Max

The maximum number of application servers in the cloud that the users can create under this bucket.

Leave the '-' value to let a user create an unlimited amount of application servers under this bucket.

Limits for compute zones

CPU Priority

Min

The minimum amount of CPU priority which can be set in the VS creation wizard when the user adds a VS under this bucket in the compute zone. If you enable the Use CPU Units then adding/editing a compute zone in the Access Control, this parameter will not apply to the users under this bucket. Instead, the *Max CPU Units* parameter will be used.

CPU Shares
Max

Default

The maximum amount of CPU shares users can request for all their servers in this compute zone under this bucket.
Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited amount of CPU Shares within the compute zone to a user under this bucket. 

The default amount of CPU shares that will be set in the VS creation wizard when the user adds a VS in this compute zone under this bucket. This parameter will apply to users under this bucket only if you enable the *Use default CPU share* option when adding/editing a compute zone in the Access Control.

RAM

Min

Max

The minimum amount of RAM that can be set in the VS creation wizard when the user adds a VS under this bucket in the compute zone.

The maximum amount of RAM that users can request for all their VSs within this compute zone under the bucket.Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited amount of RAM within the compute zone to a user under this bucket.

CPU
Min

Default

The minimum amount of virtualized CPU cores that can be set in the VS creation wizard when the user adds a VS under this bucket in the compute zone.

The default amount of virtualized CPU cores that will be set in the VS creation wizard when the user adds a VS in this compute zone under this bucket.
This parameter will apply to users under this bucket only if you enable the *Use default CPU* option when adding/editing a compute zone in the Access Control.

CPU Cores
Max
The maximum amount of CPU cores that users can request for all their VSs within this compute zone under the bucket.

Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited amount of CPU cores within the compute zone to a user under this bucket.

CPU Units
Max
The maximum amount of CPU units that users can request for all their VSs within this compute zone under the bucket.

This parameter will apply to users under this bucket only if you enable the Use CPU Units option when adding/editing a compute zone in the Access Control.

Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited amount of CPU units within the compute zone to a user under this bucket.

Use default CPU
Yes/No
Select whether you wish a default amount of CPU cores to be set in the VS creation wizard when the user adds a VS in this compute zone under this bucket.

You can set the default amount of CPU cores using the Default CPU limit.It is only possible to enable the Use default CPU option when resource prices and max limit are not set. 

Use default CPU shares
Yes/No
Select whether you wish a default amount of CPU shares to be set in the VS creation wizard when the user adds a VS in this compute zone under this bucket. You can set the default amount of CPU shares using the Default CPU shares limit.It is only possible to enable the Use default CPU shares option when resource prices and max limit are not set. 
Use CPU Units
Yes/No
Select whether you wish to use CPU shares instead of CPU priority.

You can set the number of CPU units available to users under this bucket using the *Max CPU Units* limit.

Limits for data store zones
Disk Size
Max
The maximum amount of disk space (GB) users can request in the data store zone under the bucket.

Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited amount of disk space within the data store zone to a user under this bucket.

Limits for network zones
IP Addresses
Max
The maximum amount of IP addresses users can request in this network zone under the bucket.

Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited amount of IP addresses within the network zone to a user under this bucket.

Port Speed
Max
The maximum port speed (Mbps) users can request in this network zone under the bucket.
Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited port speed within the network zone to a user under this bucket.
Limits for backup server zones
Backup
Max
The maximum number of backups (both manual and auto-backups) users can create under this bucket. Make sure that *Backups* max limit is no less than the rotation period or it will prevent auto-backups from creation. If the *Backups* max limit equals the rotation period, then one more auto-backup will be created to replace the existing one.

Leave the '-' value to provide an ability to create an unlimited number of backups within the backup server zone to a user under this bucket.

Backup disk size
Max
The maximum amount of disk space (GB) users get for storing their backups in this backup server zone under the bucket. When the backup space is exceeded, users can take backups, but they cannot restore from them unless the size is freed up.

Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited amount of disk space for storing backups within the backup server zone to a user under this bucket.

Please also set the Backups max limit to 0 in the Miscellaneous section of the bucket to prevent creating backups on compute resources.

Template
Max
The maximum amount of templates users can create in this backup server zone under the bucket.

Leave the '-' value to provide an ability to create an unlimited number of templates within the backup server zone to a user under this bucket.

Template disk size
Max
The maximum amount of disk space (GB) users get for storing their templates in this backup server zone under the bucket.

Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited amount of disk space for storing templates within the backup server zone to a user under this bucket.

OVA
Max
The maximum amount of OVAs users can create in this backup server zone under the bucket.

Leave the '-' value to provide an ability to create an unlimited number of OVAs within the backup server zone to a user under this bucket.

OVA disk size
Max
The maximum amount of disk space (GB) users get for storing their OVAs in this backup server zone under the bucket.

Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited amount of disk space for storing OVAs within the backup server zone to a user under this bucket.

Limits for guaranteed minIOPS
Requests
Max
The maximum number of IOPS requests users can request in this data store zone under the bucket.

Leave the '-' value to provide an unlimited amount of IOPS requests within the data store zone to a user under this bucket.

This parameter is SolidFire related.

Limits for instance packages

Instance Package
Compute zones

Data store zones

Network zones

Select an instance package and the compute, data store, and/or network zone(s) in which this package will be available to users under this bucket.

-   If no zones are selected for the instance package that you added to the Access Control, the instance package will be available in all zones added to this bucket.
-   Here you can also edit the list of zones in which the package will be available to users under this bucket.

Other Resources 

| Resource Type                    | Description                                                                                                                                         |
|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Limits for backup resource zones | Select which backup resource zones will be available to users under this bucket.                                                                    |
| Limits for edge groups           | Select which edge groups will be available to users under this bucket.                                                                              |
| Limits for CDN bandwidth         | Specify the maximum CDN bandwidth limit in Gb per month available for each user under this bucket.                                                  |
| Limits for template store        | Select which template stores from which templates will be available for users to select during a virtual server creation.                           |
| Limits for recipe groups         | Select which groups of recipes will be available to users under this bucket.                                                                        |
| Limits for service add-on groups | Select which service add-on groups will be available for users to assign to virtual servers or Control Panel, depending on the service add-on type. |

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Configure Rate Card

Rate Card is used to manage the prices and the number of free limits for resources. For the newly created bucket, the Rate Card is empty, and that means that a user, to whom this bucket is assigned, is not billed for any of the resources in the system. To configure pricing for compute, disk space, or networking resources, add the corresponding zones to the bucket's Rate Card. 

-   If you add a resource to the Rate Card but do not add it to the Access Control, the user under this bucket will not have access to that resource.
-   In case you remove from Access Control a resource on which users under the bucket have running servers, the users' existing servers will remain as they are, but users will not be able to access these resources to create new servers. If you leave such a resource in the Rate Card, the users' existing servers will continue to be billed according to the prices you have configured.
-   If you remove a template store or compute/data store/network/backup server zone from the Rate Card, the prices for the removed resource will be set to zero for the servers using this zone(s).
-   Note that if you set price equal number with precision 10 or more (e.g.:0.008789062511) the price is saved equal number with precision 8 (e.g.:0.00878906).
-   If you want to disable prices completely you can do so by enabling the *Disable billing* slider at the [Edit System Configuration](.Edit_System_Configuration_v7.1PrivateBeta) page. When the billing is disabled, the Rate Cards are removed from existing buckets. Note that if billing is enabled again, the prices won't be recalculated again. Instead, the price calculation will start with the next hour.

To manage pricing for the resources:

1.  Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Buckets** menu.

2.  Click a label of a bucket. You will be redirected to the *Access Control* tab of the bucket.

3.  Click the *Rate Card* tab.
4.  Click an icon to select the required server type and add resources as follows: 

-   -   Click **+** button in the appropriate section.
    -   When the new windows pop up, set the value for the free limit and the price (see the table below for reference).
    -   Select as many compute zones as you need to set the same limits for all resources of the following types:
        -   *Compute zone resource*
        -   *Data store zone resource*

        -   *Network zone resource *

        -   *Backup server zone resource*

            After you submit changes, you can edit free limits and prices for any zone resource in the bucket.

<!-- -->

-   -   Select the **Duplicate to access control** checkbox if you want to add the resource not only to Rate Card but also to Access Control.

Virtual Server Type

Resource Type
Resource Name

Values

Description

Miscellaneous

Autoscaling

Free

Price

-   the number of virtual servers for which the user can enable autoscaling for free under this bucket.
-   the price per VS per hour for VSs for which the user enables autoscaling. This price applies to servers that exceed the free Autoscaling limit set in the bucket's Rate Card.

Templates, ISO's & Backups Storage
Free

Price

-   the amount of free disk space (in GB) users can allocate to storing backups, ISOs, and templates together.
-   the price per GB per hour of disk space the user allocates to storing backups, ISOs, and templates. This price applies once the user exceeds the free *Templates, ISO's & Backups Storage* limit set in the bucket's Rate Card.

Backups
Free

Price

-   the number of backups users can create for free under this bucket.
-   the price per backup created by the user under this bucket per hour. This price applies once the user exceeds the number of free backups available in the bucket's Rate Card.

Templates
Free

Price

-   the number of templates a user under this bucket can create for free.
-   the price per template created by the user under this bucket per hour. This price applies once the user exceeds the number of free templates available in the bucket's Rate Card.

ISO Templates
Free

Price

-   the number of ISOs a user under this bucket can create for free.
-   the price per ISO created by the user under this bucket per hour. This price applies once the user exceeds the number of free ISOs available in the bucket's Rate Card.

Acceleration
Free

Price

-   the number of virtual servers for which the user can enable acceleration for free under this bucket.
-   the price per VS per hour for VSs for which the user enables acceleration. This price applies to servers that exceed the free *Acceleration* limit set in the bucket's Rate Card.

DRaaS
Price Disk Size
The additional price for disk size (GB/hr) that applies to a virtual server with enabled DRaaS.

Note that when establishing replication DRaaS dashboard an additional 1GB disk is created on the shadow VS to be used to store replication metadata. The price for this additional disk corresponds to the value of the Price Disk Size set in the bucket.

Price RAM
The additional price for RAM (GB/hr) that applies to a virtual server with enabled DRaaS.
Price CPU Cores
The additional price for CPU (core/hr) that applies to a virtual server with enabled DRaaS.
Price CPU Shares
The additional price for CPU shares (%/hr) that applies to a virtual server with enabled DRaaS.
Price CPU Units
The additional price for CPU units (unit/hr) that applies to a virtual server with enabled DRaaS.
Price Nodes
The additional price for nodes (node/hr) that applies to a virtual server with enabled DRaaS.
Pricing for compute zones

CPU

Price on

Price off

-   the price per CPU core per hour, charged for powered on VSs which are built in this compute zone under this bucket
-   the price per CPU core per hour, charged for powered off VSs which are built in this compute zone under this bucket

RAM
Price on

Price off

Free

-   the price for RAM GB/hr, charged for powered on VSs which are built in this compute zone under this bucket
-   the price for RAM GB/hr, charged for powered off VSs which are built in this compute zone under this bucket
-   the amount of RAM (GB/hr) users can request for free for the total number of their VSs built in this compute zone under this bucket

CPU Shares

Price on

Price off

Free

-   the price for CPU shares %/hr, charged for powered on VSs which are built in this compute zone under this bucket
-   the price for CPU shares %/hr, charged for powered off VSs which are built in this compute zone under this bucket
-   the amount of CPU shares users can request for free for the total number of their VSs built in this compute zone under this bucket

CPU Units
Price on

Price off

Free

-   the price per CPU unit per hour, charged for powered on VSs which are built in this compute zone under this bucket
-   the price per CPU unit per hour, charged for powered off VSs which are built in this compute zone under this bucket

-   the number of CPU units users can request for free for the total number of their VSs built in this compute zone under this bucket

These parameters will apply to users under this bucket only if you enable the *Use CPU Units* option when adding/editing a compute zone in the Access Control.
CPU Cores
Free
The number of CPU cores users can request for free for the total number of VSs built in this compute zone under this bucket
Pricing for data store zones
Disk Size
Price on

Price off

Free

Free per month

-   the price per GB of disk space per hour, charged for powered on VSs which are built in this data store zone under this bucket
-   the price per GB of disk space per hour, charged for powered off VSs which are built in this data store zone under this bucket
-   set the amount of disk space (GB/hr) users can request for free either per hour or per month:
    When setting hourly free amount using the Free Disk Size parameter, the user will be billed only for the disk size that exceeds the hourly free limit. The next hour, the user will again have the free hourly limit available and will pay only for the overused resources.When setting monthly free amount using the Free Disk Size per month parameter, the free limits for resources are set per month rather than per hour. After the free limit is exceeded, all the units overused during the month will be billed hourly according to the set price.****

Data Read
Price

Free

Free per month

-   the price per GB of read data per hour, charged for VSs which are built in this data store zone under this bucket
-   set the amount of read data (GB/hr) users can request for free either per hour or per month:When setting hourly free amount using the Free Data Read parameter, the user will be billed only for the amount of data read that exceeds the hourly free limit. The next hour, the user will again have the free hourly limit available and will pay only for the overused resources.When setting monthly free amount using the Free Data Read per month parameter, the free limits for resources are set per month rather than per hour. After the free limit is exceeded, all the units overused during the month will be billed hourly according to the set price.****

Data Written
Price

Free

Free per month

-   the price per GB of written data per hour, charged for VSs which are built in this data store zone under this bucket
-   set the amount of written data (GB/hr) users can request for free either per hour or per month:When setting hourly free amount using the Free Data Written parameter, the user will be billed only for the amount of data written that exceeds the hourly free limit. The next hour, the user will again have the free hourly limit available and will pay only for the overused resources.When setting monthly free amount using the Free Data Written per month parameter, the free limits for resources are set per month rather than per hour. After the free limit is exceeded, all the units overused during the month will be billed hourly according to the set price.****

Input Requests
Price

Free

Free per month

-   the price per 1M input requests per hour, charged for VSs which are built in this data store zone under this bucket
-   set the number of input requests (1M requests/hr) users can request for free either per hour or per month:When setting hourly free amount using the Free Input Requests parameter, the user will be billed only for the number of input requests that exceed the hourly free limit. The next hour, the user will again have the free hourly limit available and will pay only for the overused resources.When setting monthly free amount using the Free Input Requests per month parameter, the free limits for resources are set per month rather than per hour. After the free limit is exceeded, all the units overused during the month will be billed hourly according to the set price.****

Output Requests
Price

Free

Free per month

-   the price per 1M output requests per hour, charged for VSs which are built in this data store zone under this bucket
-   set the amount of output requests (1M requests/hr) users can request for free either per hour or per month:When setting hourly free amount using the Free Output Requests parameter, the user will be billed only for the number of output requests that exceed the hourly free limit. The next hour, the user will again have the free hourly limit available and will pay only for the overused resources.When setting monthly free amount using the Free Output Requests per month parameter, the free limits for resources are set per month rather than per hour. After the free limit is exceeded, all the units overused during the month will be billed hourly according to the set price.****

Pricing for network zones
Port Speed
Price on

Price off

Free

-   the price per Mbps of port speed per hour, charged for powered on VSs which are built in this network zone under this bucket
-   the price per Mbps of port speed per hour, charged for powered off VSs which are built in this network zone under this bucket
-   the amount of port speed (Mbps/hr) users can request for free for the total number of their VSs built in this network zone under this bucket

IP Addresses
Price on

Price off

Free per zone

Free per month

Free per Virtual Server

-   the price per IP address per hour, charged for powered on VSs which are built in this network zone under this bucket
-   the price per IP address per hour, charged for powered off VSs which are built in this network zone under this bucket
-   set the number of IP addresses users can request for free either per hour or per month in this zone: When setting *hourly* free amount using the *Free* *IP Addresses per Zone* parameter, the user will be billed only for the number of IP addresses that exceed the hourly free limit. In the next hour, the user will again have the free hourly limit available and will pay only for the overused resources. When setting monthly free amount using the Free IP Addresses per month parameter, the free limits for resources are set per month rather than per hour. After the free limit is exceeded, all the units overused during the month will be billed hourly according to the set price.

<!-- -->

-   the number of IP addresses users can request for free per virtual server

Data Sent
Price

Free

Free per month

-   the price per GB of data sent per hour, charged for VSs which are built in this network zone under this bucket
-   set the amount of data sent (GB/hr) users can request for free either per hour or per month:
    When setting *hourly* free amount using the *Free* *Data Sent* parameter, the user will be billed only for the amount of data sent that exceeds the hourly free limit. The next hour, the user will again have the free hourly limit available and will pay only for the overused resources.
    When setting *monthly* free amount using the *Free Data Sent per month* parameter, the free limits for resources are set per month rather than per hour. After the free limit is exceeded, all the units overused during the month will be billed hourly according to the set price.

Data Received
Price

Free

Free per month

-   the price per GB of data received per hour, charged for VSs which are built in this network zone under this bucket
-   set the amount of data received (GB/hr) users can request for free either per hour or per month:
    When setting *hourly* free amount using the *Free* *Data Received* parameter, the user will be billed only for the amount of data received that exceeds the hourly free limit. The next hour, the user will again have the free hourly limit available and will pay only for the overused resources.
    When setting *monthly* free amount using the *Free Data Received per month* parameter, the free limits for resources are set per month rather than per hour. After the free limit is exceeded, all the units overused during the month will be billed hourly according to the set price.

Pricing for backup server zones
Backup
Price

Free

-   the price per backup per hour, charged for the backups stored in this backup server zone under this bucket
-   the amount of backups (backup/hour) users can store in this backup server zone for free under this bucket

Backup Disk Size
Price

Free

-   the price per GB per hour, charged for the disk size occupied by the user's backups stored in this backup server zone under this bucket
-   the amount of disk space (GB/hr) users can request for free to store their backups in this backup server zone under this bucket

Template
Price

Free

-   the price per template per hour, charged for the backups stored on this backup server zone under this bucket
-   the amount of templates (template/hr) users can store in this backup server zone for free under this bucket

Template Disk Size
Price

Free

-   the price per GB per hour, charged for the disk size occupied by the user's templates stored in this backup server zone under this bucket
-   the amount of disk space (GB/hr) users can request for free to store their templates in this backup server zone under this bucket

OVA
Price

Free

-   the price per OVA per hour, charged for the backups stored on this backup server zone under this bucket
-   the amount of OVA (OVA/hr) users can store in this backup server zone for free under this bucket

OVA Disk Size
Price

Free

-   the price per GB per hour, charged for the disk size occupied by the user's OVAs stored in this backup server zone under this bucket
-   the amount of disk space (GB/hr) users can request for free to store their OVAs in this backup server zone under this bucket

Pricing for instance packages
Instance Package
Price on

Price off

Price Overused Bandwidth

-   the price per instance package per hour, charged for powered on VSs which are built using this instance package under this bucket
-   the price per instance package per hour, charged for powered off VSs which are built using this instance package under this bucket
-   the price per overused bandwidth for each network interface per hour (GB/hr), charged for all VSs which are built using this instance package under this bucket

Other Resources

Resource Type

Resource Name
Values
Description

Pricing for backup resource zones
Recovery Point
Price

Free

-   the price for a recovery point per hour charged for recovery points stored in the backup resource zone under this bucket
-   the number of recovery points (recovery point/hour) that users can store in the backup resource zone for free under this bucket

The recovery point is a term that is used to refer to a backup created by means of a [backup plugin](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/AGM/.Backup+Plugin+System+v6.3).

Recovery Point Size
Price 

Free

-   the price for a recovery point size in Gb per hour charged for recovery points stored in the backup resource zone under this bucket
-   the size (Gb/hour) that users can consume to store their recovery points in the backup resource zone for free under this bucket

Space Used
Price

Free

-   set the price for a total disk size (Gb/hour) charged for all backups of a particular virtual server in the backup resource zone under this bucket
-   set the free size (Gb/hour) that users can consume to store all backups of a particular virtual server in the backup resource zone under this bucket

Pricing for edge groups
Edge Group Resource
Price
Set the price per GB of CDN bandwidth that will be available to users under this bucket in the selected CDN edge group.

Pricing for template store
Template Store
Price
Select the template store for the templates in which you wish to set a price and enter the cost for each individual template.

As a single template can be included in multiple template stores, the same template will have the same price in all the template stores added to the rate card of a single bucket. If you add/edit the price of a template in one template store, the price of the same template will change to the new value in all the template stores in the rate card.
Once you add a template to the Rate Card, all the template stores that contain that template will be added to that Rate Card with a price set only for that template.

Tick the Apply to all buckets checkbox to set the price you have configured for the templates in the store to all buckets that contain this template store.

Pricing for service add-on groups
Service Add-on Store
Price

The price that will be charged for adding the service add-ons from this service add-on store to virtual servers or Control Panel, depending on the service add-on type.
CPU
Price

Free

-   the additional price for CPU (CPU core/hr) that applies to VSs to which a service add-on is added
-   the amount of CPU (CPU core/hr) users can request for free for the total number of VSs to which a service add-on is added

Memory
Price

Free

-   the additional price for RAM (GB/hr) that applies to VSs to which a service add-on is added
-   the amount of RAM (GB/hr) users can request for free for the total number of their VSs to which a service add-on is added

Disk Size
Price

Free 

-   the additional price for disk size (GB/hr) that applies to VSs to which a service add-on is added
-   the amount of disk space (GB/hr) users can request for free either per hour or per month


