# .Create ISO Virtual Server v7.1PrivateBeta

ISO virtual servers are created from the ISOs uploaded to the Control Panel and saved as specific ISO  templates. The ISOs are uploaded at Control Panel &gt; **Templates** menu. For more information, refer to the [Upload ISOs](.Manage_ISOs_v7.1PrivateBeta) section of this guide. 

To create a virtual server from the ISO:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers **menu and click ***+*** button, or click the **Create Virtual Server** button at the bottom of the screen. This will start a VS creation wizard.
2.  Fill in the wizard step by step. Each of these steps is described in the corresponding sections below.
3.  Click the **Create Virtual Server** button to start the creation process. You will be taken to the virtual server details screen.

It is required that you perform additional network configuration during ISO installation. For more information, refer to **Confirmation** step below.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Step 1 of 4. Templates

At this step, choose a specific ISO template from which your virtual server will be built.  
To choose a template:

1.  Click the ISO template group.
2.  Select the template.
3.  Click **Next.**

Proceed to the following steps of the wizard and specify the virtual server properties.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Step 2 of 4. Virtual Server Properties

At this step, you need to indicate your virtual server's properties.

Specify the following virtual server properties:

-   *Label* - the label of the virtual server. The required parameter.
-   *Hostname* - the hostname of the virtual server. The required parameter. The hostname should consist of letters \[A-Z a-z\], digits \[0-9\] and dash \[ - \]. For more info on hostname validation, refer to [RFC standard documentation](http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1123.html).

    Particular characters are not allowed for Windows-based virtual servers:

    -   percent  \[%\]
    -   quotation marks \[“ “\]
    -   angle brackets \[&lt;&gt;\]
    -   vertical bar \[ | \]
    -   caret \[^\]
    -   ampersand \[&\]
    -   parentheses \[( )\]

-   *Domain -* specify the domain for this VS. The default value is local domain. This parameter is not applicable to Windows virtual servers. 

    For example:
    *[test.onapp.com](http://test.onapp.com)* - specify ' *test*' as hostname, ' *[onapp.com](http://onapp.com)*'-  as domain. If you leave the domain field blank, the default value ' *localdomain*' will be used and you will get the following - *[test.onapp.com](http://test.onapp.com).localdomain*.

-   *Time zone* - set the time zone for the virtual server. This parameter is applicable only to Windows KVM virtual servers.

-   *Password* - a secure password for the VS. It can consist of 6-99 characters, letters \[A-Za-z\], digits \[0-9\], dash \[ - \] and lower dash \[ \_ \], and the following special characters: ~ ! @ \# $ \* \_ - + = \` \\\\ { } \[ \] : ; ' , . ? /. You can use both lower- and uppercase letters. If you leave password field blank, it will be generated automatically.

-   *Password confirmation* - repeat the password to confirm it.
-   *Encrypt password* - move the *Encrypt Password* slider to the right, to encrypt your password, then enter an encryption key in the field that appears.

Click **Next **to proceed to the following steps of the wizard to specify the virtual server resources.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Step 3 of 4. Resources

At this step, you can choose to create the virtual server either by selecting a predefined instance package or by setting your virtual server's resources, such as disk size, network configuration, and other manually.

-   A VS created using instance packages is called an Instance package VS.
-   A VS created by setting resources manually is called a custom virtual server.

Depending on the permissions, this step will display either **Instance packages** or **Create your own** tabs, or both of them.

You are forwarded to the next step from the tab you are currently on. If you select an instance package and then click on the *Create Your Own* tab and proceed to the next step, the system will set the resources from the *Create Your Own* tab even if you did not configure any resources there.

### **Resources**

**Instance packages**

Note that Instance package VSs can only be created on compute resources within compute zones where all compute resources are assigned the same amount of CPU units. If there are compute resources with different amount of CPU units set in a zone, it will not be possible to create Instance package VSs in such zones. The reason is that CPU priority for Instance package VSs in this configuration cannot be set to 100%, which is the default value for such virtual servers.

If there are no available IP addresses during VS creation, all instance packages will be grayed out in the wizard. 

From this tab, you can choose one of the predefined [Instance Packages](.Instance_Packages_v7.1PrivateBeta) for your virtual server. If you select a compute zone that does not have enough resources during virtual server creation, you will see all instance packages available to you, but those that have resources incompatible with the chosen compute zone will be grayed out. Grayed out instance packages cannot be selected.

For each of the instance packages the following details are displayed:

-   *Memory* - the RAM size (GB) available in the instance package
-   *CPUs* - the number of CPU cores available in this instance package
-   *Disk Size* - the disk size available in this instance package
-   *Bandwidth* - the bandwidth available in this instance package
-   Price per Hour:
    -   *Mode ON* - hourly instance package price for the VS powered on
    -   *Mode OFF* - hourly instance package price for the VS powered off
-   Price per Month:
    -   *Mode ON* - monthly instance package price for the VS powered on
    -   *Mode OFF* - monthly instance package price for the VS powered on

Click the instance package to select it. After that, the instance package you have chosen will be highlighted in green.

Virtual servers created using instance packages do not support autoscaling.

**Create Your Own**

Using this tab you can define the resources for your virtual server manually:

**Compute Resources**

-   *Compute Zone* - the compute zone to build the VS on.
-   *Compute Resource* - the specific compute resource to build the VS on. Compute resource may be selected automatically according to the set [provisioning type](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Virtual+Server+Provisioning+v6.4).

**Resources**

-   *RAM* - set the amount of virtual server's RAM. The maximum RAM depends on your bucket's settings. The maximum RAM that can be assigned to a VS is 168 GB regardless of the Max RAM value set in the bucket.
-   *CPU Cores* - set the amount of virtual server's CPU cores. For KVM compute resources, this parameter sets CPU sockets by default, unless CPU topology is enabled.
-   *CPU Priority* (or *CPU Units*) - set virtual server's CPU priority. If the CPU units are switched on in the bucket for this user, then CPU priority is replaced with CPU units. Refer to [Billing Calculation](.Billing_Calculation_v7.1PrivateBeta) section for details on CPU units and CPU priority.

The following options are available for VSs based on KVM compute resources only, providing the *Enable CPU topology permission* is switched on for the user.

-   *Use CPU Topology* - move the slider to the right, to set the following parameters:
    -   *CPU Sockets* - set the number of sockets.

    -   *CPU Threads* - set the number of threads per core. 

CPU topology (CPU sockets and CPU threads) is the Labs feature preview. Pay attention that setting CPU sockets and CPU threads are at your own risk only!

You may face the following problems when setting CPU topology:

-    Currently, you cannot set CPU sockets and threads parameters for existing VSs.
-   After setting, the new parameters won't be shown at the VS details screen.
-   Some Linux VSs fail to boot up.

**Primary Disk**

-   *Primary data store* - choose a data store for VS's primary disk.
-   *Primary disk size* -  set the primary disk size.

**Swap Disk**

-   *Swap data store - *choose a data store for VS's swap disk.
-   *Swap disk size - s*et the swap disk size.  There is no swap disk for Windows-based VSs. In all other cases, swap disk size must be greater than zero.
-   *Disable* - select the checkbox to disable swap disk creation 

**Network Configuration**

Network Interface 1

-   *Network* - choose the network from which the VS should get the IP address
-   *IP net* - select from the drop-down list the IP net from which the IP address should be assigned
-   *IP range* - select from the drop-down list the IP range from which the IP address should be assigned
-   *IP address* - select an IP address to be assigned from the drop-down box

    The first IP address you add will be marked as primary for the VS. You can further [edit the IP addresses assigned to VS](.ISO_Virtual_Server_Networks_v7.1PrivateBeta).

-   *Selected IP address - *if the option is available, you can also assign an IP address for the VS from the drop-down menu. Indicate a compute resource and network to have the list of available IPs.
-   *Port Speed* - set the port speed for this VS

-   *Selected IP address* option is enabled via the *Show IP address selection for new VS* slider on the Admin &gt; **Settings** &gt;** Configuration** settings screen (under the [System](.Edit_System_Configuration_v7.1PrivateBeta) tab).
-   You can't select unlimited port speed if the Network Zone is not selected. In this case the port speed will be 1 by default.
    It's possible to create virtual server with unlimited network speed without selecting a network zone only if you have only one Network Zone assigned to your bucket.

Click** Next** to proceed to the last step of the wizard.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Step 4 of 4. Confirmation

At this step, configure the automation settings. This is the final step of the virtual server creation wizard.

-   Move the **Boot Virtual Server **slider to the right if you want the virtual server to be started up automatically.

At the Confirmation step you can find the configuration summary of VS, which will be created. You can view the template's name, RAM size, number of networks, primary disk and swap disk size, number of cores.

After you set up all parameters, click the **Create Virtual Server **button to start the creation process.

When a virtual server is created, you will be redirected to the VS details page. Take the following steps to finish the ISO installation process:

1.  Go to VS **Networking** tab &gt; **IP** **Addresses**. 
2.  Copy the following data: IP Address, netmask, gateway, resolver (DNS).
3.  Go to console, where the ISO installation process is running, and enter copied IP Address, netmask, gateway and resolver (DNS).


