# .Create and Manage Backup Resources v7.1PrivateBeta

Backup resources are based on plugins that enable running backups on third-party systems. Creating a backup resource is the first step to take after [installing](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/IN/Installing+Plugins) a backup plugin. You can install your custom plugin or default plugins that are provided for R1Soft  and Veeam. In this section, you can find information on how to view, create, edit and delete backup resources. 

## Prerequisites for Veeam 

Before you [install](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/IN/Installing+Plugins) a plugin for Veeam and [create](#id-.CreateandManageBackupResourcesv7.1PrivateBeta-create-backup-resource) a backup resource, complete the following steps via Veeam Backup & Replication UI:

1.  Add your [VMware vCenter Servers](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/add_vmware_server.html?ver=95) or [VMware vCloud Director](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/adding_vcloud_director.html?ver=95) to the Veeam backup infrastructure. 

    Note that this step works only if the number of Veeam Backup & Replication instances connected to the Veeam Enterprise Manager does not exceed 1; otherwise, it will fail. 

2.  Add a [Backup Repository](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/repo_add.html?ver=95) to the Veeam backup infrastructure. 
3.  Create a [vSphere backup job](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/backup_job.html?ver=95) and specify the [Retention Policy](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/retention_policy.html?ver=95) settings. 

After you complete the preceding steps, you can [create a backup resource](#id-.CreateandManageBackupResourcesv7.1PrivateBeta-create-backup-resource) and [add advanced options](#id-.CreateandManageBackupResourcesv7.1PrivateBeta-manage-advanced-options) that are required for Veeam.  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Prerequisites for R1Soft

Before you [install](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/IN/Installing+Plugins) a plugin for R1Soft and create a backup resource, make sure your firewall configuration is correct. If you are using a network firewall or host-based firewall (e.g. iptables), you may need to change your firewall configuration to open ports that Server Backup Manager uses for network communication.

API Server Network Ports

##### Input:

-   allow TCP packets **from** any port **to** the Backup Manager port 9080
-   allow TCP packets **from** any port **to** the Backup Manager port 9443

##### Output:

-   allow TCP packets **from** the Backup Manager port 9080 **to** any port range 1024-65535
-   allow TCP packets **from** the Backup Manager port 9443 **to** any port range 1024-65535

-   To access the API server, you will need to allow network traffic to the Backup Managers IP address, TCP port 9080 for HTTP traffic, and TCP port 9443 for HTTPS traffic.
-   HTTP and HTTPS ports are configurable. "9080" and "9443" are the default values. If you change the ports, do not forget to change your firewall configuration to reflect the changes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Create Backup Resource

Backup resources that are built on the R1Soft plugin are not currently supported for Windows-based virtual servers.

To create a new backup resource, follow the next steps: 

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt;** Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu. 
2.  Click the **Backup Resources** icon. 
3.  On the page that appears, click the '**+**' or **New Backup Resource** button and provide the following details: 
    -   *Label -* type the name of the backup resource
    -   *Enabled - *turn the slider to the right/left to enable/disable the backup resource

        The disabled backup resource cannot be attached to a virtual server. Make sure that the Enabled slider is turned on before attaching the backup resource to virtual servers.

    -   *Backup resource zone *- select the backup resource zone to assign the backup resource to

        If you have no backup resource zone at this point, you can [assign](.Create_and_Manage_Backup_Resource_Zones_v7.1PrivateBeta) the backup resource to the zone when it is created.

    -   *Plugin -* select the plugin for the backup resource
    -   *Primary host* - enter the primary address (either hostname or IP address) used to connect to the third-party backup system. Specify a protocol and port type of the primary host, that is http://*{address}:{port}* or https://*{address}:{port}*. 
    -   *Secondary host -* enter the secondary address (either hostname or IP address) used to connect to the third-party backup system. Specify a protocol and port type of the secondary host, that is http://*{address}:{port} *or https://*{address}:{port}.* 
    -   *Username -* type the username used to connect to the third-party backup system
    -   *Password -* type the password used to connect to the third-party backup system

4.  Click the **Create** button to add a new backup resource. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit Backup Resource

To edit a backup resource, follow the next steps: 

1.  Go to your **** Control Panel &gt;** Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu. 
2.  Click the **Backup Resources** icon. 
3.  On the page that appears, click the **Actions** button next to the required backup resource and then click **Edit**. You can change the following properties of the backup resource: 
    -   *Label -* type the name of the backup resource
    -   *Enabled - *turn the slider to the right/left to enable/disable the backup resource

        The disabled backup resource cannot be attached to a virtual server. Ensure that the *Enabled *slider is turned on before [attaching](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Backup_Resources_v7.1PrivateBeta) the backup resource to virtual servers.

    -   *Primary host -* enter the primary address (either hostname or IP address) used to connect to the third-party backup system. Specify a protocol and port type of the primary host, that is http://*{address}:{port}* or https://*{address}:{port}*. 
    -   *Secondary host -* enter the secondary address (either hostname or IP address) used to connect to the third-party backup system. Specify a protocol and port type of the secondary host, that is http://*{address}:{port} *or https://*{address}:{port}.* 
    -   *Username -* type* *the username used to connect to the third-party backup system
    -   *Password -* type the password used to connect to the third-party backup system

4.  Click the **Save** button to apply new settings for the backup resource.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Manage Advanced Options

The advanced options for a backup resource are automatically fetched from the *config.xml* file of a backup plugin. You can edit the advanced options for the backup resource as follows: 

1.  Go to your **** Control Panel &gt;** Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu. 
2.  Click the **Backup Resources** icon. 
3.  Click the **Actions** button next to the required backup resource and then click **Advanced options**. 
4.  You can manage the following advanced options, depending on a backup plugin: 

**Veeam
**

1.  -   *vSphere template job name -* enter a name of a vSphere backup job that is added to the Veeam backup infrastructure
    -   *Backup repository name -* enter a name of a backup repository that is added to the Veeam backup infrastructure
    -   *Power on after restore -* select this checkbox to power on virtual servers after restoring them from recovery points
    -   *Quick rollback - *select this checkbox to perform an incremental restore of virtual servers from recovery points

        For more information on the incremental restore, see Quick Rollback.

**R1Soft
**There are no options that require an advanced management for the R1Soft backup plugin. 
**Custom Plugin**
**
**You can manage advanced options that you provide for your custom plugin in the *config.xml* file. For more information, please refer to the [Create Backup Plugin](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/IN/Implementing+Configuration) guidance.

    5. Click the **Save** button to apply changes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Delete Backup Resource

To delete a backup resource, follow the next steps: 

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt;** Settings** menu. 
2.  Click the **Backup Resources** icon. 
3.  On the page that appears, click the **Actions** button next to the required backup resource and then click **Delete**. 
4.  In the pop-up box, click the **Ok***** ***button to confirm your action. 

If you delete a backup resource that is attached to a virtual server, the backups for this VS will be no longer run by means of the plugin.


