# .Create Compute Resources v7.1PrivateBeta

Compute resources are used to provide hardware resources for virtual servers ensuring highly efficient use of available hardware and complete isolation of virtual server processes. Compute resources can be organized into compute zones which makes it easy to offer tiered service levels and create private clouds for specific users. 

To add a compute resource:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Compute resources** icon.
3.  Click **+** button or the **Add a new Compute resource **button underneath the list of compute resources on the screen.
4.  On the screen that appears:
    -   *Label - *enter a compute resource label.
    -   *IP Address* - add an IP address.
    -   *Compute Resource Type* - choose a compute resource type (KVM).

-   -   *Operating System Type -* choose an operating system type (Any OS, Windows only, or Non-Windows).

        -   Any OS - when this option is selected, any VS with any Operating system will live on compute resource. By default each compute resource will be created with the Any OS option. The existing compute resources also will have the Any OS set.
        -   Windows only - when this option is selected, only VSs with the operating system Windows will be living on this compute resource. This compute resource will not be available for selection when creating a Linux or FreeBSD VS, nor when migrating a VS.
        -   Non-Windows - when this option is selected, only VSs with the operating system Linux or FreeBSD will be possible to create on this compute resource. This compute resource will be skipped for Windows-based VSs in VS creation wizard, or when migrating a VS. Also when failover happens, Windows-based VSs won’t migrate to this compute resource.

1.  -   *Backups IP address* - add a provisioning network IP address*.*
    -   *CPU Units* - adjust the slider to set the desired amount of CPU units for this compute resource. For more info on CPU units, refer to [Billing Calculation](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Billing+Calculation+v6.7). Do not apply CPU Units for KVM compute resources running on baremetal servers. Mind that setting a different amount of CPU units will affect your cloud configuration. It will not be possible to create Instance Package VSs on the compute zone to which you assign this compute resource.

    -   *Enabled* - move the slider to the right to enable a compute resource. Compute resources that are not enabled cannot be used to host VSs.
    -   *Integrated Storage* -  move the slider to the right to enable Integrated Storage on static compute resources.
    -   *Collect Stats* - move the slider to the right to collect statistics for this compute resource.
    -   *Disable Failover* - move the slider to the right to disable failover on this compute resource (failover is automatic VS migration to another compute resource if this one goes down).

    -   *Failover recipe* - select a recipe to run before the failover process.

*Power Cycle Command* - arbitrary command string to be executed by IPMI from the CP server. If the command is entered, a new option Power Cycle compute resource - which will execute the entered command will appear at Admin &gt; Settings &gt; Compute Resources &gt; label of a compute resource &gt; Actions &gt; Resource Options.

Currently, a command or commands should be written in one line separated by a semicolon. If the command(s) is written in two lines you will receive a "fail" response, although the transaction will be performed. The power cycle command is executed on Control Panel under user onapp, this may be any script created in bash.

    5. Click the **Save **button. The compute resource will be added to the system. You can view it under the** Compute resources** menu. Click the **Back **button to return to the **Compute resource Settings** page.

For details how to create a CloudBoot compute resource, refer to the [Create CloudBoot Compute Resource](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Create+CloudBoot+Compute+Resources+v6.6) section.

After you create a compute resource you need to [add it to a compute zone](.Manage_Compute_Zones_v7.1PrivateBeta) of the required type. For more information on compute zone types, refer to [Zone Types](.Zone_Types_v7.1PrivateBeta).


