# .Data Stores Settings v7.1PrivateBeta

Data stores provide disk space for your virtual servers and operating systems. Data stores are attached to Compute resources. There are several types of data stores in OnApp:

1.  Traditional logical volume data stores based on a centralized SAN. 
2.  Integrated storage data stores (the core Integrated Storage functionality). See the [Integrated Storage](https://docs.onapp.com/is/latest/integrated-storage-data-stores/create-integrated-storage-data-store) chapter for details.
3.  SolidFire data stores.

The basic management tools are the same for all data store types, but the creation process differs.

Data stores have types that they inherit from the zone to which they belong. Later data stores can be attached to a compute resource/compute zone of the same type. Data stores can be moved from one data store zone to another, but the zones should be of the same type. For more information, refer to Zone Types. The table below demonstrates the available data store zone types for different data stores:

| Data Store Type    | Data Store Zone Type |
|--------------------|----------------------|
| LVM                | Virtual/Smart        |
| Integrated Storage | Virtual/Smart        |
| SolidFire          | Virtual/Smart        |
| QCOW2              | Virtual              |
| vCloud Director    | VPC                  |
| VMware             | Virtual              |

Use caution when changing data store settings.

OnApp is integrated with the SolidFire storage management system. It is now possible to perform the following options with the SolidFire:

-   Allocate dedicated LUN from SF cluster per virtual server disk, when creating a VS (LUN is created per each VS disk, with a separate LUN per swap disk).
-   Create virtual servers without the swap disk.
-   Implement backups/snapshots using the SF CloneVolume method

Logical unit number (LUN) is a unique identifier assigned to one or several virtual server disks, addressed by SCSI protocol. In the SolidFire SAN environment, a RAID controller provides multiple LUN support, presenting storage as multiple devices. In this case, a LUN is used to present a view of the disk storage to the virtual server. When a LUN is assigned to a virtual server, it acts as its physical disk drive. Regardless of the use, each logical unit is treated as a single device.

LUN allows differentiating up to eight logical units. In the LUN division, SAN is configured in such a way as to match LUNs to proper virtual servers.

The use of LUN mapping allows improving security by setting storage access limitations so that only LUNs authorized to access a particular virtual server can access the specific port.

Data stores provide disk space for your virtual servers and operating systems. Data stores are attached to Compute resources. The basic management tools are the same for all data store types, but the creation process differs. This section provides information on how you can create, edit, and delete data stores. 

To use the data store, you have to add it to a [data store zone](.Data_Store_Zones_Settings_v7.1PrivateBeta) and assign it either to a [compute resource](.Manage_Compute_Resource_Data_Store_v7.1PrivateBeta) or a [compute zone](.Manage_Compute_Zone_Data_Stores_v7.1PrivateBeta).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Create LVM Data Store

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Data Stores** icon.
3.  Click the **Create Data Store** button at the bottom of the screen.
4.  Follow the steps in the creation wizard:
    **Step 1. Properties
    **

    -   *Label* - choose a name for the data store
    -   *IP address* - enter an IP address for your data store
    -   *Data store type* - select the **lvm **data store type
    -   *Enabled* - move the slider to the right to enable the data store. When disabled, OnApp will not allow new disks to be created automatically on that data store. This is useful to prevent an established data store from becoming too full. It also lets you prevent the automatic creation of root disks on particular data stores (high speed, etc).

    Click **Next.
    Step 2. Resources
    **

    -   *Disk Capacity* - set disk capacity in GB
    -   *Local Compute resource* - if required, you can also bind the data store with a local Compute resource. This is helpful if you wish that the data store and a Compute resource were located on the same physical server thus decreasing the time needed for a Compute resource-data store connection.
    -   *Data Store Zone* - assign the data store to a data store zone. The drop-down menu lists all data store zones set up in the cloud (to add or edit data store zones, see [Data Store Zones Settings](.Data_Store_Zones_Settings_v7.1PrivateBeta)). Unless you assign a data store to a data store zone and compute resource or zone, you won't be able to use this data store for storage. When you add a data store to a data store zone, the data store inherits the zone's type. It will be possible to move such a data store only to a data store zone of the same type. For more information, refer to Zone Types.

5.  When you've finished configuring the store, click the **Create Data Store** button.

OnApp doesn’t support the 4 K block size for local  LVM data stores.

To view LVM details, use the following commands:

-   *pvdisplay* - shows the current state of your physical volumes
-   *vgdisplay* - shows all volume groups
-   *lvdisplay* - shows all logical volumes
-   *lvscan* - shows all active volumes (disks)
-   *lvs* - shows the same information as *lvscan* does but with less details
-   *pvscan* - scans all disks for physical volumes and shows disk space

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Create SolidFire Data Store

You can create one SolidFire data store per cloud that will represent the space available at the SolidFire side.

To create a SolidFire data store:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Data Stores** icon.
3.  Click the **Create Data Store** button at the bottom of the screen.
4.  Follow the steps in the creation wizard:
    **Step 1 of 3. Properties**

    -   *Label* - enter a data store label
    -   *IP address* - specify an IP address to be used for managing the data store via CP (Inasmuch SolidFire data stores have two interfaces, you'll have to specify the IP address for the cluster admin later)
    -   *Data store type* - select a **solidfire** data store type
    -   *Enabled* - move the slider to the right to enable a data store. When disabled, OnApp will not allow new disks to be created automatically on that data store. This is useful to prevent an established data store from becoming too full. It also lets you prevent the automatic creation of root disks on particular data stores (high speed, etc).
    -   Click **Next.
        **

    **Step 2 of 3. Resources**

    -   *Disk Capacity* - set disk capacity in GB.
    -   *Local Compute resource* - if required, you can also bind the data store with a local Compute resource. This is helpful if you wish that the data store and a Compute resource were located on the same physical server thus decreasing the time needed for a Compute resource-data store connection.
    -   *Data Store Zone* - assign the data store to a data store zone. The drop-down menu lists all data store zones set up in the cloud (to add or edit data store zones, see Data Store Zones Settings).

    When you add a data store to a data store zone, the data store inherits the zone's type. It will be possible to move such a data store only to a data store zone of the same type. For more information, refer to Zone Types.

    **Step 3. Authentication Settings**

    -   Specify the cluster Admin settings:
        -   *iSCSI IP - *iSCSI IP address*
            *
        -   *Username - *specify a username for cluster authorization*
            *
        -   *Password -* specify a password for cluster authorization
    -   Specify the SolidFire Account settings:
        -   *Username - *specify SolidFire account username*
            *
        -   *Initiator secret - *specify iSCSI initiator secret (optional)*
            *
        -   *Target secret - *specify iSCSI target secret (optional)

        *Initator secret *and* target secret *are optional parameters*. *They are created automatically for a newly created account. For the new account, they will be taken from the SolidFire database.
        If you specify target and initiator secrets for an existing user, they will be overwritten.

5.  When you've finished configuring the store, click the **Create Data Store** button.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Create QCOW2 Data Store

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Admin &gt; Settings menu.
2.  Click the Data Stores icon.
3.  Click the Create Data Store button in the lower-right corner and fill in the following:
    Step 1 of 2. Properties
    -   Label - enter the data store label.
    -   Data store type - select qcow2.
    -   Enabled - move the slider to the right to turn on the data store. If disabled, OnApp will not allow new disks to be created automatically on the data store. It prevents the data store from becoming too full and the automatic creation of root disks on particular data stores (high speed, etc).
    -   Click Next.

    Step 2 of 2. Resources
    -   QCOW2 path - specify the path to the QCOW2 file. 
    -   Disk Capacity - set the disk capacity in GB.
    -   Local Compute Resource - if required, bind the data store with a local compute resource to locate the data store and the compute resource on the same physical server. Thus, it decreases the connection time between the compute resource and the data store.
    -   Data Store Zone - in the drop-down list, select a data store zone to assign the data store to it. The drop-down list shows all data store zones set up in the cloud (to add or edit data store zones, see Data Store Zones Settings).

    When adding a data store to a data store zone, the data store inherits the zone type. You can move such a data store exclusively to a data store zone of the same type. For more information, refer to Zone Types.

4.  Click the Create Data Store button.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit Data Store

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Data Stores** icon. You'll see a list of the data stores on your system.
3.  Click the **Actions** button next to the store you want to change, then select **Edit**.
4.  On the following page, edit the required data store details:
    1.  1.  -   *Label* - the name of the data store.
            -   QCOW2 path - change the path to the QCOW2 file. 

                The QCOW2 path option applies to the QCOW2 data store only.

            -   *IP address* -* *the IP address of the data store.

            -   *Iscsi IP* - the iSCSI IP address.

                The IP address and Iscsi IP options do not apply to the QCOW2 data store.

            -   *Disk Capacity* - set the disk capacity in GB.
            -   Enabled - move the slider to the right to turn on the data store. If disabled, OnApp will not allow new disks to be created automatically on the data store. It prevents the data store from becoming too full and the automatic creation of root disks on particular data stores (high speed, etc).
            -   Local Compute Resource - if required, bind the data store with a local compute resource to locate the data store and the compute resource on the same physical server. Thus, it decreases the connection time between the compute resource and the data store.
            -   *Data Store Zone* - reassign the data store to another data store zone. The drop-down list shows all data store zones set up in the cloud (to add or edit data store zones, see Data Store Zones Settings).

                You can move data stores only between data store zones of the same type. For more information, refer to Zone Types.

            -   *Data Store Type* - edit the data store type.
            -   *Trim* - select the checkbox to enable it on your SSD. For more information about the option, see [TRIM](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/FAQ/TRIM). 

                The Trim option is automatically turned on for QCOW2 data stores. Thus, it does not appear in the wizard.

    If you have an integrated data store, the following parameters will be additionally available:

    -   *Auto Healing* - move the slider to the right to enable [auto-healing](https://docs.onapp.com/display/IS/Integrated+Storage+Auto+Healing).
    -   *Epoch* - move the slider to the right to turn on [epochs](https://docs.onapp.com/display/IS/Epochs+for+Data+Stores).
    -   *Integrated Storage Cache enabled* - move the slider to the right to turn on [caching](https://docs.onapp.com/display/IS/SSD+Caching).

5.  Click the **Save Data Store** button.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit Data Store IO Limits

IOPS limiting functionality allows you to prioritize the load on a SAN for VSs. IOPS limiting can be set for data store or for separate [disks](.Disks_Settings_v7.1PrivateBeta).

-   Ensure that the* IO Limiting *permissions are on before managing IO limits. For more information refer to the [OnApp Permissions](.OnApp_Permissions_v7.1PrivateBeta) section of this guide.
-   All IO limits are set to unlimited by default.
-   The IOPS limit, set for a data store, is automatically applied to all disks within this data store.

To edit a data store IO limits:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Data Stores** icon. You'll see a list of the data stores on your system.
3.  Click the **Actions** button next to the store you want to change, then click **Edit IO Limits.**
4.  On the following page edit the appropriate data store details:
    1.  -   *Read IOPS - *set the read IOPS amount
        -   *Write IOPS - *set the write IOPS amount
        -   *Read throughput - *specify the read throughput* *(in MB/s)
        -   *Write throughput - *specify the write throughput (in MB/s)

5.  Click the **Save** button to finish.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Disable IOPS Limiting

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Data Stores** icon. You'll see a list of the data stores on your system.
3.  Click the **Actions** button next to the store you want to change then click **Edit IO Limits.**
4.  On the following page set all parameters to Unlimited.
5.  Click the **Save** button to finish.

6.  Go to */onapp/interface/config/on\_app.yml* file and set the *io\_limiting\_enabled* parameter as 'false'. Disabling will only remove the feature from the UI, old vDisk limits will be used if not set to unlimited. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Delete Data Store

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Data Store** icon. You'll see a list of the data stores in your system.
3.  Click the **Actions **button next to the data store you want to delete, then click **Delete.** You'll be asked for confirmation before the store is deleted.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Configure Snapshot Size

During the backup process, we take a snapshot of the virtual disk to be backed up. Before OnApp 6.8, the snapshot occupied 10% of the virtual disk size in the data store. To make a backup, you should have had a free space of at least 10% of the virtual disk size at nodes where the virtual disk was allocated. Starting with OnApp 6.8, you can configure the size of a snapshot proportionally to the size of a virtual disk.

To configure the snapshot size per cloud basis, open the /onapp/interface/config/info\_hub.yml file and change the following parameters:

-   snapshot\_percentage\_small\_vdisk - the size of the vDisk is up to 10 GB; the default snapshot value is 100%
-   snapshot\_percentage\_medium\_vdisk - the size of the vDisk is from 11 to 100 GB; the default snapshot value is 15%
-   snapshot\_percentage\_large\_vdisk - the size of the vDisk is 101 GB and up; the default snapshot value is 5%

------------------------------------------------------------------------


