# .Disks Settings v7.1PrivateBeta

Virtual server storage is provided by disks. A disk is a partition of a data store that is allocated to a specific virtual server. Disks can be assigned as standard or swap disks. Managing disks for the entire cloud is handled through the Control Panel's Settings menu. This section contains information on how to view, edit, migrate and delete every disk in the cloud, and get quick access to their backup and scheduling functions.

Do not create multiple partitions on one disk for virtual servers. OnApp Control Panel supports only one partition per disk. In cases when you change disk partition, the CP might lose control of such a disk and the VS associated with it. If required, create additional disks instead.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Enable Disk Auto-Backups

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **Disks** menu.
2.  Move the** Auto-backup** icon to the right next to the required disk.

You can use disk auto-backups to enable/disable automatic backups for a particular disk. If the incremental backups are enabled in your cloud, you can set auto-backups per VS rather than per disk.

If disk auto-backups were turned on before enabling the incremental backups option, you will need to disable the disk auto-backups and enable incremental auto-backup per virtual server.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Backup Disks

The Disks screen lists all the disks in the cloud and indicates disk ID, disk label, disk size, data store they're configured on, the virtual server they're assigned to, their type, status, number of backups taken and backup status.

To back up a disk:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **Disks** menu.
2.  Click the **Actions **&gt;** Backup** button next to the required disk.
3.  Click the **Take a Backup** button.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Migrate Disks

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt;  **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **Disks** menu.
2.  Click the **Actions** button next to the disk you want to change, then click the** Migrate **link.
3.  Choose the type of migration (can be hot or cold).
4.  Choose a target data store.
5.  Click the **Start Migrate **button.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## View Disk IOPS

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **Disks** menu.
2.  Click the **Actions** button next to the required disk, then click the** IOPS **link.
3.  There are four charts on the screen that appears:
    -   Instant IOPS - IOPS for the last hour
    -   Hourly IOPS - IOPS for the last 24 hours
    -   Instant data written/read - data written/read for the last 24 hours
    -   Hourly data written/read - data written/read for the last hour

4.  To zoom into a time period, click and drag in a chart. Click the **Reset Zoom** button to zoom out again.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit Disk 

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Admin &gt; Settings menu.
2.  Click the Disks icon. Click the Actions button next to the required disk and select Edit.
3.  Move the Size slider to change the size of the disk. To decrease the size of the disk below 5 GB, move the Override Minimum Size slider to the right.

    Please note that decreasing disk size below 5 GB may lead to data loss.

4.  Click Save Disk to confirm the change.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit Disk IO Limits

IOPS limiting functionality allows you to prioritize the load on a SAN for VSs. IOPS limiting can be set for [data store](.Data_Stores_Settings_v7.1PrivateBeta) or for separate disks.

Ensure that the* IO Limiting *permissions are on before managing IO limits. For more information refer to the [OnApp Permissions](.OnApp_Permissions_v7.1PrivateBeta) section of this guide.

To edit disk IO limits:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Disks** icon. You'll see a list of the disks on your system.
3.  Click the **Actions** button next to the disk you want to change, then click **Edit IO Limits.**
4.  On the following page move the **Override DataStore IO Limits** slider to the right to edit the appropriate details:
    1.  -   *Read IOPS - *set the read IOPS amount
        -   *Write IOPS - *set the write IOPS amount
        -   *Read throughput - *specify the read throughput* *(in MB/s)
        -   *Write throughput - *specify the write throughput (in MB/s)

5.  Click the **Save** button to finish.

To disable IOPS limiting:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Disks** icon. You'll see a list of the disks on your system.
3.  Click the **Actions** button next to the disk you want to change, then click **Edit IO Limits.**
4.  On the following page set all parameters to Unlimited.
5.  Click the **Save** button to finish.

6.  Go to */onapp/interface/config/on\_app.yml* file and set the *io\_limiting\_enabled* parameter as 'false'. Disabling will only remove the feature from the UI, old vDisk limits will be used if not set to unlimited. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Schedule Disks for Backups

In addition to the system auto-backup presets, you can schedule backups of virtual servers (VS disks) as required. For example, you can set up a schedule to back up your disks once a week.

To schedule a backup:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **Disks** menu.
2.  Click **Actions **&gt;** Schedule for backups** button next to a disk to schedule a backup for.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Delete Disks

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **Disks** menu.
2.  Click **Actions** &gt;** Delete** button next to a disk to delete it. You'll be asked for confirmation before the disk is removed. All backups for this disk will be removed too.

### Disk Wipe

OnApp Cloud provides two ways to clean VS data when deleting or migrating a VS's disk. By default, OnApp Cloud will format the physical disk space used by a virtual server when that VS's virtual disk is deleted, or when the VS disk is migrated to another data store.
You can also choose to wipe/format a VS's disk (filling it with zeroes) by changing a configuration setting on the OnApp Control Panel server. To enable this behavior:

1.  Log in as root on your OnApp Control Panel server.
2.  Edit the following configuration file: /onapp/interface/config/on\_app.yml and set the wipe\_out\_disk\_on\_destroy parameter to true.
3.  Restart OnApp service: service onapp restart.

The wipe\_out\_disk\_on\_destroy value is set to FALSE by default. If you wish to return disk wiping behavior to the default setting (formatting rather than zeroing disks), simply edit the config file and set the value to FALSE again.  

If you are viewing the disks list on a narrow screen, you can customize the way the table is displayed by clicking the actions icon at the top of the table. In the drop-down list that appears, check the columns you want to be displayed and click **Apply**. The narrower your screen is, the more unchecked columns will be hidden from the table. If your screen is too narrow to fit all the columns you have checked, a scrollbar will appear at the bottom of the disks list. You can always alter your column selection later. Note that by default the Backups, Auto-backup? and Disk columns are not visible in the table on narrow screens.

Column selection is currently set for one browser. If you have checked some columns in one browser and open the list in some other browser, the column selection will be the default one for that other browser.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


