# .Edit Defaults Configuration v7.1PrivateBeta

This section contains information on how to edit password complexity, new virtual servers, firewall, and other application settings.

To edit defaults configuration, do the following:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt;** Settings** menu, and click the **Configuration** icon.
2.  Click the **Defaults **tab to change the following application settings: 

    Please note that the system will restart OnApp services automatically after you save new configuration.

    **Enable password protection on user deleting **- move this slider to the right to enable confirmation of user deletion by means of administrator password.

    **Enforce password complexity** - move this slider to the right to specify the following password complexity configuration settings:

    -   *Minimum length* - specify minimum required password length (0-99). The default value is 6.
    -   *Enforce at least one upper and lower case letter - *move this slider to the right to enforce user using both uppercase and lowercase letters in their password.
    -   *Enforce at least one letter and number* - move this slider to the right to enforce user using both letters and numbers in their password.**
        **
    -   *Enforce symbols* - move this slider to the right to enforce user using symbols in their password.**
        **
    -   *Enforce unique password every time* - move this slider to the right to make user enter unique password each time they change the password (the last 12 passwords are saved in OnApp configuration). This refers to the user account passwords only.**
        **
    -   *Lockout attempts* - the number of unsuccessful login attempts that are allowed before user's account is locked out
    -   *Expiry (Months) -* specify the password expiry period in months.

        To save password complexity configuration disable the Enforce Password Complexity option and enable it again.

    Different passwords are used for each VS. The passwords are stored in the database and are encrypted.

    **Allow advanced VS management** - move this slider to the right to enable managing the [advanced configuration](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Advanced_Configuration_v7.1PrivateBeta) for virtual servers in your CP

### Virtual Servers

-   *Force shutdown on power cycle failure - *move the slider to the right to use Virsh destroy during system shutdown or reboot

### **New Virtual Servers**

-   *Default image template -* choose a particular OS template as the default for [VS creation](.Create_Virtual_Server_v7.1PrivateBeta). A new virtual server will be created using this template, unless otherwise set in the wizard.
-   *Service account name -* specify the service account name that will be automatically created on VMware virtual servers to be able to communicate with them. 
-   *Default acceleration policy* - move this slider to the right to enable default acceleration policy and have all the newly created VSs accelerated by default. Note that when you enable this option here, then the Acceleration slider will be missing in the VS creation wizard.

-   *Default virsh console policy* - move this slider to the right to be able to access all the newly created virtual servers via the Virsh console. 

VMware client tools are used to communicate with a VS. A user service account is created when provisioning a VS to ensure the same name is used for both Windows-based and Linux-based VSs.

### **Firewall**

-   *Drop firewall policy allowed ips* - enter the IP addresses to be allowed as an exception if the default firewall policy is DROP*
    *
-   *Default firewall policy -* default settings for a VS's **Networking** &gt; **[Firewall](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Manage+Virtual+Server+Networks+v6.8)** tab (ACCEPT/DROP). Changes in the default firewall policy will be applied only to those VSs that are created after these changes are applied.

-   *Allow to start more than one Virtual Server with the same IP - *move this slider to the right to allow starting up virtual servers with one IP address.

### **SSH Options**

-   *SSH Port* - specify the port used to connect to compute resources and backup servers.
-   *SSH Timeout* - specify the timeout used when connecting to the compute resource and backup server. The default value is 10 seconds.

### **SSH Keys**

-   *SSH-keys - *click to manage the administrator SSH keys. The keys will be automatically assigned to all VSs which will be created in the cloud later.To assign keys to existing VSs, go to the VS Overview &gt; Properties menu.

### **Recipes Options**

-   *Recipe temporary directory* - specify the temporary recipe directory where all recipe scripts (on Control Panel, compute resources and virtual servers) are generated. The default value is /tmp.

### **Migration Options**

-   Hot Migration rate limit, MiB/s per VS - the maximum rate limit per one transaction used for migrating the VS. The default value is 10 MiB. The limit is applicable to all types of Hot Migration.
-   Simultaneous Hot Migrations per Compute Resource - the maximum amount of transactions which can be run simultaneously on the target compute resource when migrating a VS. The default value is 5. Applicable only to Migrate VS and Disks.

-   Simultaneous Hot Migrations per Cloud - the maximum amount of transactions which can be run simultaneously within the cloud when migrating a VS. The default value is 2.
-   Simultaneous Hot Migrations per Compute Zone - the maximum amount of transactions which can be run simultaneously within the same compute zone when migrating a VS. The default value is 2. 

      3. Click the **Save Configuration **button to finish.


