# .Edit Interface Configuration v7.1PrivateBeta

This section contains information on how to edit locales, pagination, system themes, and other application settings.

To edit interface configuration, do the following:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings **menu, and click the** Configuration **icon.
2.  Click the** Interface **tab to change the following application settings:

Please note, the system will restart OnApp services automatically after you save the new configuration.

**Locales**

-   *Locales* – in the list, select locales which will be available for the users. You may select multiple locales.

**AJAX Update Rates (ms) **

-   *VS Status - *AJAX pagination update time for virtual servers*
    *
-   *Dashboard/logs/other - *AJAX pagination update time for dashboard, logs, and other screens

**Pagination**

-   *Max items limit –* set the maximum amount of items which can be displayed per page applying the **Show All** button in the list. If the overall number of the items in the list exceeds the number entered herein, the **Show All** button will not be available in the list menu.
-   *Log items pages limit on dashboard  *– set the maximum amount of pages to list log items in the *Activity Log* section at the main **Dashboard** page. You can view all the available log items at the **[Logs](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Logs+v6.7) **page, including those items that cannot be displayed at Dashboard within the specified amount of pages. 

**System Themes**

-   *Default system theme *– in the drop-down list, ** select a system theme. It can be light or dark.
-   *Default Custom theme* – select a custom theme that will be automatically applied to all future organizations/user groups. If you do not specify the custom theme, new entities will use the default one.   

**Dashboard Statistics**

-   *Dashboard Stats – *select the statistics, which will be shown on a [dashboard](.Dashboard_v7.1PrivateBeta), from the list. 

     3. Click the **Save Configuration** button to finish.


