# .Edit Infrastructure Configuration v7.1PrivateBeta

This section contains information on how to edit delay between executing background tasks, background processes, RabbitMQ, and other application settings.

To edit infrastructure configuration, do the following:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt;** Settings **menu, and click the **Configuration **icon.**
    **

2.  Click the **Infrastructure **tab to change the following application settings:

    If you change any settings here and save, the Control Panel server will restart OnApp services.

**Delay in seconds between executing background tasks**

1.  -   *Backup taker* - this process schedules auto-backups
    -   *Billing event processor* - this process generates billing statistics
    -   *CDN sync* - synchronization between CDN and OnApp. By default, this parameter is set to 20 minutes.
    -   *Cluster monitor* - this parameter is deprecated
    -   *Compute resource monitor* - this parameter is deprecated
    -   *Schedule runner* - this process runs schedules which request auto-backups to be taken
    -   *Transaction runner* - this process covers the following tasks: transactions\_processor - the task which is responsible for running transactions, SupplierRunnerProcessor - this process relates to Federation and starts transactions on the seller cloud which send notifications to the Market, TraderRunnerProcessor - this process relates to Federation and starts transactions which send different requests to the Market and process notifications from the seller
    -   *Snmp stats level1 period* - this process gathers information about compute resources uptime and virtual servers' statuses
    -   *Snmp stats level2 period* - this process gathers information about the disk usage, network usage, CPU usage statistics and the list of virtual servers
    -   *Snmp stats level3 period* - this process generates the list of volume groups and logical volumes

If you change any of the *Snmp stats* parameters, you need to restart the OnApp Engine to save changes. To restart the OnApp Engine run the following commands in the console:

``` java
service onapp-engine stop
service onapp-engine start
```

**Background processes**

-   *Amount of service instances -  *the number of system processes that perform the OnApp engine tasks simultaneously.* *Each of the system processes performs the task using a separate CPU core*. *The default value is 2. Currently, the maximum value is 12. If you input a value larger than 12, the number of system process will still be 12.
-   *Transaction standby period -* the time which a transaction spends in stand-by period before requeueing to pending queue. The default value is 30. We recommend increasing this parameter for clouds with thousands of pending long lasting transactions (like backups) in order to decrease CPU/IO load.
-   *Time period, given to OnApp Engine to perform graceful stop* - if the OnApp Engine is stopped, running transactions will fail after the amount of time (seconds) indicated by this parameter. By default, this parameter is set to 300 seconds.
-   *Log level* - log detalization level: debug, info, warn, error and fatal. This parameter is available only for CPs in development mode. It is not displayed for Control Panels in staging or production modes. By default, this parameter is set to 'info'.

**RabbitMQ**

-   *RabbitMQ Host *- RabbitMQ server IP address

-   *RabbitMQ Port* - RabbitMQ port
-   *RabbitMQ Virtual Host* - the name of the "virtual host" (or vhost) that specifies the namespace for entities (exchanges and queues) referred to by the protocol. Note that this is not virtual hosting in the HTTP sense.

-   *RabbitMQ Login* - RabbitMQ login
-   *RabbitMQ Password* - RabbitMQ password 

**Zabbix Settings**

Starting with the 4.2 version, OnApp uses Zabbix for autoscaling. If you already have a Zabbix server, you can connect it to your cloud by adding the necessary information in the fields provided below:

-   *Zabbix host* - the IP address of your Zabbix server

-   *Zabbix url* - the path to the Zabbix web-interface

-   *Zabbix user* - your Zabbix user

-   *Zabbix password* - your Zabbix password

Click the **Save Configuration** button to finish.


