# .Edit Backups/Templates Configuration v7.1PrivateBeta

This section contains information on how to edit backup or template server, backup processes, incremental backups and other application settings.

To edit backups or templates configuration, do the following:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu, and click the **Configuration** icon.
2.  Click the** Backups/Templates** tab to manage the following settings: 

    If you change any settings here and save, the Control Panel server will restart OnApp services.

### **Manage Templates**

To enable template update and install, set the following parameters:** **

-   *Template server URL* - fill in the template server address: [http://templates-manager.onapp.com](http://templates-manager.onapp.com/). The template server address [http://templates-manager.onapp.com](http://templates-manager.onapp.com/) is set automatically during OnApp Control Panel install/upgrade process.

-   *Delete template source after install -* enable this option to delete the downloaded templates after they were distributed.

     Do not enable this option if the location of your templates is shared with CP box. Otherwise, recently downloaded templates may be removed.

### **Paths to**

Sets paths for various OnApp files (shown here with default path examples)

-   *Templates -* /onapp/templates
-   *Recovery templates* - /onapp/tools/recovery
-   *Backups *- /onapp/backups

### **Backup/Template Server**

Backups and templates can be stored on a remote server or a mounted disk. To store backups and templates remotely, configure the following settings:

-   *Allow incremental backups* - move this slider to the right to enable incremental backups. Incremental backups are advanced method of taking backups. During the incremental backup, only the changes made after the last backup are archived instead of backing up the whole target.** **See [Virtual Server Backups](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Backups_v7.1PrivateBeta) for details.** **Incremental backups are not available for Windows virtual servers, as well as under VMware and SolidFire.
    If the **Allow incremental backups** option is enabled, the new provisioning scheme will be used (with unpacked templates). Otherwise, the system will use the traditional provisioning method.
    When the incremental backups option is enabled, the ability to create full backups will be disabled (except for the servers that do not support incremental backup type). Existing full backups will be still accessible via **Backups **&gt;** Images** menu.

    If you are using incremental backups option AND ssh\_file\_transfer is disabled, you should either enable dedicated backup servers in your cloud or share the backups and templates folders (paths) between your compute resources.

-   *Use SSH file transfer* - move this slider to the right to enable SSH data transfer for your template/backup server. If this option is not enabled, you will need to mount the templates/backup server manually. It is not possible to utilize SSH file transfer option when incremental backups are enabled.

    Skip this option if you are using incremental backups.

-   *Server IP* - specify the IP address of the backup/template server.
-   *User login* - the login used for remote server authentication. A password is not required, but it is required that you store a host key.
-   *SSH options* - the SSH protocol options that set the rules and behavior of how to log into the remote server. By default, the options are set to omit adding new host keys to the host file and skip password authentication. They also specify the path where the host key is stored.

### **Backup Processes**

-   *Total number allowed *- the maximum number of compute resource, backup server and data store backup processes allowed at once on the Control Panel.
-   *Total per data store -* if this number exceeds the overall total, the overall total limit will be enforced.

-   *Total per compute resource -* if this number exceeds the overall total, the overall total limit will be enforced.

-   *Total per backup server* - if this number exceeds the overall total, the overall total limit will be enforced.

    For example: if total number allowed is 10, and total per data store is 3, total per backup server is 3, and total per compute resource is set to 4, then up to 10 backups can be taken at once – 3 per data store, 3 per backup server, and 4 per compute resource.

### **Incremental Backups**

*Minimum disk size calculation coefficient for template -* this parameter is for incremental backups only. During the backup conversion to template, backup’s size is multiplied by this coefficient to make sure that template will be slightly bigger than the actual size for correct performance.

### **Rsync Options**

These options are for clouds with enabled incremental backups. Your cloud must have a dedicated backup server configured with one of the following file systems: ext2, ext3, ext4, reiserfs, or xfs.

*Store extended attributes* - enable this option to store extended attributes when taking incremental backups.
*Store ACLs* - enable this option to store access control lists.

### Windows Auto-Backups

Force Windows Auto-Backups - enable this option to take raw disk image backups. This option is designed as an extreme measure when the backup cannot be taken due to NTFS file system problems.

3. Click the **Save Configuration **button to finish.


