# .Events v7.1PrivateBeta

The **Events** page shows the events which occurred in the cloud and which users were notified. To view the list of events go to your Control Panel &gt;** Admin** &gt; **Events** menu. The page that loads shows the list of events which have occurred in the system with their details:

-   *Date* - the time and date when the event occurred
-   *Event Type* - the type of the event
-   *Data -  *the text of the notification that was sent about the event 

OnApp currently offers two event types: system and custom. To view the list of system event types, that cannot be edited or deleted, go to your Control Panel** **&gt; **Admin** &gt; **Event Types **&gt; **System Event Types** tab. The page that loads shows the list of system event types registered in system with their details:

-   *ID* - the ID of the event
-   *Event type* - the type of the event

If required you can add a custom event type which can later be selected when setting up a subscription. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Add Custom Event Type

To add a custom event type:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Event** **Types** &gt; **Custom Event types** tab.
2.  Click the **Create New Event Type** button.
3.  On the page that loads, enter the name and description of your custom event type.
4.  Click** Submit **to save the new event type.

### Trigger Custom Events

If required, you can trigger the event from the list of custom events manually. When you trigger a custom event type, a new popup window appears where you can enter the text of the message to be passed into the notification template. Triggered custom events are displayed in the Events section together with the system events that have occurred in the cloud.

To trigger a custom event:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Event** **Types** &gt; **Custom Event types** tab.
2.  Click the **Actions** button next to the event type you want to trigger and select **Trigger**.
3.  Enter a text which will be included into your notification.
4.  Click** Trigger **to send the notifications.

To edit or delete a custom event type, click the **Actions** button next to the necessary event and select the corresponding option from the drop-down list. 


