# .IP Nets v7.1PrivateBeta

IP nets contain the IP address ranges of the network. You can add new IP nets to the network, edit and delete the existing nets and add and edit IP ranges in the IP nets. For information on how to add IP ranges to IP nets, refer to [IP Ranges](.IP_Ranges_v7.1PrivateBeta).

You can add IP nets only to shared networks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Create IP Net

To add an IP net to a network:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **Networks** icon. The page that loads shows the shared networks in your cloud.
2.  Click the label of the network to which you want to add an IP net.
3.  On the page that loads, click the **New IP Net** button.
4.  Fill in the details of the new IP net:
    -   *Label* - the name of the IP net
    -   *Network address* - the network address of the IP net
    -   *Network mask* - the network mask. Must be less or equal 32.
    -   *Default gateway* - the default gateway to be added to the IP net automatically 
    -   *Allow gateway to be outside from Ip Net* - select the checkbox to allow the gateway to be outside from the IP net
    -   *Add default IP range* - select the checkbox for the default IP range to be added to the IP net automatically. Otherwise, you'll need to add the required IP ranges after the IP net is created.

5.  Click **Submit** to finish.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit IP Net

To edit an IP net:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **Networks** icon. The page that loads shows the shared networks in your cloud.
2.  Click the label of the network which contains the IP net you wish to edit.
3.  Click the **Actions** button next to the IP net you want to modify and select **Edit**.
4.  Edit the details of the IP net:
    -   *Label* - the name of the IP net
        If the IP net does not contain any IP ranges, you can also edit the following parameters:
    -   *network address* - the network address of the IP net
    -   *network mask* - the network mask 

5.  Click **Submit** to save changes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Delete IP Net

You can delete only those IP nets that do not contain any IP ranges.

To delete an IP net:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **Networks** icon. The page that loads shows the shared networks in your cloud. 
2.  Click the label of the network to which you want to add an IP net.
3.  Click the **Actions** button next to the required IP net and select **Delete**.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


