# .ISO Virtual Server Statistics v7.1PrivateBeta

For your convenience, the system tracks VS performance and generates statistics on: Virtual Server CPU Utilization, Interface Usage, VS Billing statistics, Virtual Server Disk IOPS Statistics, and Accelerated ISO Virtual Server Statistics.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## ISO Virtual Server CPU Utilization

OnApp tracks CPU usage for virtual servers and generates charts that help analyze VS performance. 
The charts show the total CPU usage for all the cores of this particular VS for a specified time period. 

The vertical axis shows the CPU usage percentage (CPU percentage is the core-independent quantity). The horizontal axis defines a time period.
To see CPU usage statistics:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt;** Virtual Servers **menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you're interested in.
3.  Click the **Overview tab** &gt; **CPU Usage**.
4.  On the screen that appears, the top chart shows CPU usage for the last 24 hours. The bottom chart shows usage for the last three months (if there is enough data). If there is less data available, the chart will show utilization for the time available.
5.  Move the **Show in My Timezone** slider to the right if you want to show bandwidth statistics according to your profile's timezone settings.
6.  To zoom into a time period, click and drag in a chart. Click the **Reset Zoom **button to zoom out again.
7.  You can filter the statistics by date and time - select the time period from the drop-down menu and click the **Apply** button.

To see what percentage of Compute resource CPU resource a VS takes, go to your Control Panel's Virtual Servers menu and click the label of the VS you're interested in. On the screen that appears, the CPU(s)/Shares parameter displays the amount of CPU resource given to this VS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## ISO Virtual Server Billing Statistics

OnApp has a record of all the charges applied to your VSs for the last three month period. If a virtual server was created less than three months ago, statistics are recorded for the VS's existence to date. You can view all statistics available, or those for a shorter period by setting a Start and End time. 
To view billing statistics for a virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you're interested in.
3.  Click the **Overview **&gt; **Billing Statistics** tab.
4.  You can filter the statistics by date and time - select the time period from the drop-down menu and click the **Apply** button. By default the statistics are generated for the last three months or the actual VS existence period.
5.  Move the **Show in my Timezone** slider to the right if you want to view billing statistics according to your profile's timezone settings. By default, billing statistics is shown in UTC.
6.  On the page that appears:

    The price parameters on this page do not take into consideration the free limits for resources set in the bucket.

-   -   *Date* – particular date and time for the generated statistics
    -   *Users* – the virtual server owner. Click the owner name to see the User Profile (user details)
    -   *Virtual Servers* – the virtual server name with the total due for VS resources (CPU priority, CPUs, memory and template resources) for the point of time specified in the Date column.
    -   *Network Interfaces Usage* – the total due for the network interfaces used by this VS for the point of time specified in the Date column. Click the network interface name to see its details.
    -   *Disks* *Usage* – the list of disks assigned to this VS with the total due for the disk space resources (disk size, data read/written, reads/writes completed) for the point of time specified in the Date column. Click the disk name to see its details.
    -   *Costs* – the total due for the Virtual Servers, Network Interfaces and Disks resources at the point of time specified in the Date column.

Scroll down to see Total Amount (the total due for the whole billing statistics period).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## ISO Virtual Server Network Interface Statistics

OnApp tracks network usage for virtual servers and generates charts that help analyze network performance. To see network utilization statistics for a virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers **menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you're interested in.
3.  Click the **Networking** &gt;** Network Interfaces** tab.
4.  Click the **Statistics** (chart) icon next to the network you're interested in.
5.  On the screen that appears, the top chart shows bandwidth usage for the last 24 hours. The bottom chart shows usage for the last three months.
6.  To zoom into a time period, click and drag in a chart. Click the **Reset zoom** button to zoom out again.
7.  You can filter the statistics by date and time - select the time period from the drop-down menu and click the **Apply** button.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## ISO Virtual Server Disk IOPS Statistics

The system tracks IOPS (Input/Output Operations per Second) for virtual servers and generates charts that help analyze VS disk performance. The data presented in the chart are for the periods during which the statistics was gathered, typically 3 minutes. To see IOPS for a virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt;** Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you're interested in.
3.  Click the** Storage** &gt; **Disks **tab.
4.  Click the **Actions **button next to the required disk, and then choose **IOPS**.** 
    **
5.  There are four charts on the screen that appears:
    -   IOPS for the last hour
    -   IOPS for the last 24 hours
    -   Data written/read (in Kb) for the last 24 hours
    -   Data written/read (in Kb) for the last hour

6.  To zoom into a time period, click and drag in a chart. Click the **Reset Zoom** button to zoom out again.
7.  You can filter the statistics by date and time - select the time period from the drop-down menu and click the **Apply** button.

The OnApp API allows you to limit the Hourly IOPS and Hourly data by setting the limit=N parameter, where the N variable is the number of hours for which the charts will display the info.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Accelerated ISO Virtual Server Statistics

This page provides the information on how you can view bandwidth statistics and cache utilization statistics of accelerate-enabled virtual server.

Ensure that *Accelerate any Virtual Server/Accelerate own Virtual Servers* permissions are on before managing accelerated VS statistics. For more information about permissions, refer to the [OnApp Permissions](.OnApp_Permissions_v7.1PrivateBeta) section of this guide.

To see the bandwidth and cache utilization statistics:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.

2.  Click the label of the accelerate-enabled virtual server you're interested in.

3.  Click the **Acceleration **tab &gt;** Reporting**.
4.  On the screen that appears, specify the period in the From and To fields and click the **Apply** button. The default period is the last week.
5.  The first chart shows bandwidth statistics: the total/cached/non-cached statistics. The second chart shows cache utilization statistics: the number of pages cached on the Edge (hits) as well as the number of misses - the pages which are not cached.
6.  To zoom into a time period, click and drag in a chart. Click the **Reset Zoom **button to zoom out again.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


