# .ISO Virtual Server Disks v7.1PrivateBeta

Virtual server storage is provided by disks. A disk is a partition of a data store that is allocated to a specific virtual server. Disks can be assigned as the standard or swap disks (there are no swap disks for Windows based templates). They can also be set as primary (that is, the disk from which an OS will boot).

Managing disks for the entire cloud is handled through the Control Panel's Settings menu. Disks for individual virtual servers are managed through the Control Panel's **Virtual Servers** menu.

Creating multiple partitions on one disk is forbidden for all virtual servers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Add Disks to ISO Virtual Servers 

Adding a disk to a virtual server will require that VS should be rebooted. If a VS is running when you try to add a new disk to it, you'll be asked to confirm the reboot. To add a disk to a virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click a VS's label to open its details screen.
3.  Click the **Storage **tab &gt; **Disks**.
4.  Click the** "+" **button** **or** **the **Create Disk **button.
5.  Fill in the details:
    -   Specify disk label.
    -   Choose the data store to create a disk on from the drop-down list.
    -   Move the slider to the right to specify the desired disk size.

        The disk size should not exceed 2 TB when a new disk is added. You can later resize the disk if you need it to be larger than 2 TB.

6.  Click the** Add Disk **button to finish.

Restrictions:

-   If you choose a Solidfire data store, the minimum disk size will be regulated by Solidfire Data Store Zone settings.
-   If virtual server and the control panel server belong to different networks, the hot attach transaction will fail.
-   When you add a new disk to a virtual server, it automatically becomes available to that server.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit ISO Virtual Server Disks

For primary and swap (Linux, FreeBSD) disks you may only change the label and the size. You can resize disks when needed. The resize will fail if your current usage is greater than the new size you request. Note that any changes to the disk size require rebooting of your VS. For Windows-based ISO virtual server disks, you can enable or disable virtio mode.

To edit a disk:

1.  Go to your Control Pane &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Make sure your virtual server is powered off, then click its label to open its details screen.
3.  Click the **Storage** tab &gt;** Disks**.
4.  Click the **Actions** button next to the disk you want to change, then click** Edit**.
5.  On the page that appears, you can edit the following:
    • Label - specify the name of the disk
    • Size - move the slider to the right to specify the desired disk size in GB
    • Enable Virtio - move the slider to the right to enable virtio mode

    Please note that the Enable Virtio option is available only for Windows-based ISO virtual servers with the template supporting kvm\_virtio.

6.  Click the **Save Disk **button. 

-   You cannot decrease disk size. Only the increase disk size option is available. 
-   You cannot resize the primary disk for FreeBSD-based virtual servers. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Migrate ISO Virtual Server Disks

You can migrate disks of your virtual servers to other data stores, which are allocated to the same Compute resource. Unlike [VS migration](.Manage_ISO_Virtual_Servers_v7.1PrivateBeta) – disk migration requires a reboot of the VS (despite the template it is based on).
To migrate a disk:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt;** Virtual Servers **menu.
2.  Make sure your virtual server is powered off, then click its label to open its details screen.
3.  Click the **Storage **tab &gt;** Disks**.
4.  Click the** Actions** button next to the disk you want to move to another data store, then click the **Migrate** button.
5.  On the screen that appears, select a target data store from a drop-down box.

6.  Click** Start Migrate. **

-   You can only migrate disks to data stores in data store zones assigned to your bucket. 
-   You cannot migrate a disk to a data store with less capacity than the disk size.
-   If you move a 850 GB disk between aggregates with 10 GB actual usage, the 'dd' image of the local volume manager will take 850 GB space, because the entire local volume manager is copied, including zero 'd space which may not be able to be recovered.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Delete ISO Virtual Server Disks

To delete a disk:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Make sure your virtual server is powered off, then click its label to open its details screen.
3.  Click the **Storage** &gt; **Disks** tab.
4.  Click the **Actions **button next to the disk you want to delete, then click Delete.
5.  In the pop-up window, move the Force Reboot slider to the right, then select the VS shutdown type.
6.  Move the **Required Startup **slider to the right to start up the VS automatically.

    Steps 5 and 6 apply to disks of VSs that are on.

7.  Click the** Destroy Disk **button.

This will schedule the ["destroy disk" transaction](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Transaction+Server+v6.4).

------------------------------------------------------------------------


