# .License v7.1PrivateBeta

OnApp Cloud provides two licensing models that enable you to use your Control Panel with [a set of available services](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=120143255) – Online and Offline or Isolated license. The Isolated license is applicable to a Control Panel that is run in an isolated environment that allows no external access from the public Internet. The Online license can be used for those CPs that are not managed in an isolated environment and allow external access. 

For any queries regarding your OnApp license, please contact your account manager.

## View License Details 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

To view your OnApp license details:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **License** icon.
3.  The **Licensing** page provides the following license details:

-   -   *License Type* - the license type
    -   *License Key* - the license key
    -   *License Status* - the license status that can be valid or invalid
    -   *License Expires In* - the license expiry date
    -   *XEN/KVM Compute Resources Limit* - the current usage and limit of XEN/KVM compute resources 
    -   *XEN/KVM Compute Resources Core Limit* - the current usage and core limit of XEN/KVM compute resources 
    -   *VCENTER Compute Resources Core Limit* - the current usage and core limit of vCenter compute resources 
    -   *Integrated Storage Limit* - the current usage and limit of the integrated storage disk size measured in GB
    -   *Virtual Server number limit on XEN/KVM Compute Resources* - the current usage and limit on the number of virtual servers on XEN/KVM compute resources
    -   *Virtual Server number limit on VCENTER Compute Resources* - the current usage and limit on the number of virtual servers on vCenter compute resources
    -   *Trader Status* - the status of the trader
    -   *Supplier Status* - the status of the supplier

If you exceed the limits available in your license, you can no longer use the API and Control Panel. All your requests will be redirected to the Licensing page. If you reach the limit defined in your license, you will not be able to create new resources.

**Licensed Features**

The **Licensed Features** box contains the list of available features and indicates whether they are enabled or disabled for the present license:

-   -   *Compute Resource Supported* - lists supported [compute resources](.Compute_Resources_v7.1PrivateBeta) (e.g. Xen, KVM, vCloud, VMware that is vCenter, etc.)
    -   *Software Defined Storage* - shows whether [Integrated Storage](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/IS/.OnApp+Storage+Home+v6.4) is enabled for the license

    -   *Infiniband* - shows whether [InfiniBand](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/VHSInstallationGuide/.Install+Compute+Resources+v7.1PrivateBeta) is enabled for the license
    -   *DRaaS* - shows whether Disaster Recovery as a Service is enabled for the license
    -   *CP High Availability* - indicates whether [High Availability CP](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.High+Availability+Clusters+v6.4) is enabled for the license
    -   *Application Servers* - shows whether [application servers](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Application+Servers+v6.4) are enabled for the license
    -   *Edge Accelerator* - shows whether the [accelerator server](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/CDN/.CDN+Accelerator+v6.5) for CDN is enabled for the license

-   Starting from OnApp 6.0, CDN accelerator is free of charge and is enabled in your license by default. 

    -   *Service Add-Ons* - shows whether [service add-ons](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Service+Add-Ons+v6.8) are enabled for the license
    -   *SDN* - shows whether Software-Defined Networking ([SDN](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/APIM/.SDN+Management+v6.0)) is enabled for the license
    -   *NSX for vCenter -* shows whether NSX feature for vCenter is enabled for the license
    -   *NSX for vCloud - *shows whether NSX feature for vCloud is enabled for the license

At the bottom of the **Licensed Features **box, you can see the date of the last sync with the licensing server.

## Online License 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you use an online license, use the following procedure to change your license key:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **License** icon.
3.  Click the **Change License Key** button to change the OnApp license key. You will be redirected to the **System** tab at the **Settings** &gt; **Configuration** page where you can change and save a new license key. 
4.  To accelerate the license validation after changing the license key, click the **Restart License Client** button.

You can control a user's ability to restart license client by enabling or disabling the *Restart Dashboard Client* [permission](.OnApp_Permissions_v7.1PrivateBeta).

## Isolated License 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

To use an isolated license for your CP, run the following steps:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Configuration **icon.
3.  In the **System** tab, move the *Enable isolated license* slider to the right.

Click the **Save Configuration** button. 

Please be careful when setting licensing mode to isolated for a non-isolated license. The isolated licensing mode disables automatic licensing requests to the licensing server. In isolated mode, you will need to use a web browser to manually perform the licensing request/response exchange between the Control Panel and the licensing server. Only licenses specifically created for isolated operation are compatible with isolated mode. Switching to isolated mode while on an incompatible license will cause it to become invalid.

When the isolated license functionality is enabled, you can go to Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **License** and download a validation request or upload a validation request: 

-   **Download Validation Request
    **Click this button to download a validation request. You then need to upload this request to the [Licensing collection website](https://licensing.onapp.com/licensing_collections/new). Uploading of the validation request initiates downloading of the validation response that you will need to upload into your CP. 

<!-- -->

-   **Upload Validation Response
    **Click this button to upload the validation response that you have earlier downloaded from the [Licensing collection website](https://licensing.onapp.com/licensing_collections/new). Choose the response file stored on your computer and click **Submit**.

-   You need to upload the validation response to your Control Panel within 30 minutes after receiving it, otherwise, the response will not be accepted on your Control Panel.
-   After the Control Panel upgrade, you need to manually sync with the dashboard by downloading the validation request and then uploading the validation response as described above.

## License Expiration

------------------------------------------------------------------------

You might see the following message on your Control Panel: *Your license expires in X days. After expiration, the Control Panel will be disabled and your users. *

Click here to see more information about the issue.

There are four reasons that might cause the issue:

-   Your license actually expires.
-   The OnApp licensing client server is down. 
-   The OnApp daemon is down.
-   There is a communication issue between the Control Panel and OnApp licensing client servers.

Follow the next steps to determine and resolve the issue:

**Your license actually expires**

If your license is due to expire, please renew the license to access your cloud. If your license is not due to expire, but you see the corresponding message on your CP, follow the next steps. 

**The OnApp licensing client server is down**

Access your Control Panel via SSH and run the following command: 

``` java
service onapp-licensing status
```

If a response is other than OnApp Licensing Process is active. PID: xxxx, you need to restart the licensing process. Sometimes the PID might be active, but the licensing daemon is down. To troubleshoot the issue, check the dashboard\_client.log file in the /onapp/interface/log directory. If there is no information in the dashboard\_client.log file, it means that the licensing daemon is down.  

To resolve this issue:                                                                                              

Restart the licensing client by running the following commands:

``` java
service onapp-licensing stop
service onapp-licensing start
```

To confirm that the issue has been fixed:

Go to your Control Panel to check that the corresponding message is no longer displayed. You can also log in to your [admin.onapp.com](http://admin.onapp.com) account and [go to the Licenses section](#id-.Licensev7.1PrivateBeta-online_license). Click a label of the affected license and go to the Debug section. The latest date in the Debug section must be a current date. If the latest date in the Debug section is not the current date and it is not updated in a few minutes, follow the next steps.

**The OnApp daemon is down**

If the OnApp licensing server is up and running, but you still see the message, it might be an indication that the OnApp daemon is down. In such a case, [raise a support ticket](https://help.onapp.com/hc/en-us) to have the daemon issue investigated.

**There are communication issues between the Control Panel and OnApp licensing client servers**

Verify that Port 443 is open for outbound traffic from a Control Panel server. The port should be open for the Control Panel server to connect with the OnApp licensing server. For more information, see [Required Ports](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/MISC/Required+Ports).

If the Port 443 is open, but the licensing client running on your CP can't connect with the OnApp licensing server, you can receive this warning:

*The licensing timeout starts at 14 days - if the CP fails to contact our licensing server within those 14 days then the CP will lock itself out - Virtual Machines on the HVs will continue to run, but all access to the API will fail and access to the UI tries to redirect to the licensing page (which will give a permission error if the user isn't an admin user or otherwise has permissions to view the license details)*

If the CP does lock out, you need to resolve the licensing issue: either the technical one or contact your account managers to renew the license. 


