# .Manage Suspended Virtual Server v7.1PrivateBeta

For information on how to suspend a virtual server, refer to the [Virtual Server Power Options](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Power_Options_v7.1PrivateBeta) section.

Suspending a virtual server makes it inactive, but still present on the system. All the major actions on the suspended VS are disabled except for some actions related to:

-   [Properties](#id-.ManageSuspendedVirtualServerv7.1PrivateBeta-properties)
-   [CPU Usage](#id-.ManageSuspendedVirtualServerv7.1PrivateBeta-cpu-usage) 
-   [Billing Statistics](#id-.ManageSuspendedVirtualServerv7.1PrivateBeta-statistics)
-   [Recipes](#id-.ManageSuspendedVirtualServerv7.1PrivateBeta-recipes)
-   [Service Add-ons](#id-.ManageSuspendedVirtualServerv7.1PrivateBeta-service-add-ons)
-   [Network Interfaces](#id-.ManageSuspendedVirtualServerv7.1PrivateBeta-network-interfaces)
-   [Firewall Rules](#id-.ManageSuspendedVirtualServerv7.1PrivateBeta-firewall-rules)
-   [Disks](#id-.ManageSuspendedVirtualServerv7.1PrivateBeta-disks)
-   [Backups](#id-.ManageSuspendedVirtualServerv7.1PrivateBeta-backups)

To run all the available VS-related actions on a suspended instance, you should unsuspend it. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Properties

You can view general properties of the suspended VS at Control Panel **** &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu, including such details as hostname, compute resource, location group, owner, IP addresses, and others. You can also view the *Notes* section that lists brief comments or reminders for the suspended VS but you cannot create new notes. 

For more information on the VS properties, refer to the [Virtual Server Details](.Manage_Virtual_Servers_v7.1PrivateBeta) section.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### CPU Usage

You can view charts on the CPU usage of the suspended VS at Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** &gt; *Label* &gt; **Overview** &gt; **CPU Usage** tab. The charts show the total CPU usage statistics for all the cores of the particular VS for a specified time period. The vertical axis indicates the CPU usage percentage (CPU percentage is the core-independent quantity) and the horizontal axis defines a time period. 

For more information on CPU usage, refer to the [Virtual Server CPU Utilization](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Statistics_v7.1PrivateBeta) section.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Billing Statistics

You can view billing statistics of the suspended VS at Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** &gt; *Label *&gt; **Overview** &gt;** [Billing Statistics](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Manage+Virtual+Server+Statistics+v6.4)** tab. The Billing Statistics page contains a record of billing operations relevant to the last three-month period. If a virtual server was created less than three months ago, statistics are recorded starting from the VS's creation date. You can view all available statistics or those for a shorter period by setting a Start and End time.

For more information on how to view billing statistics, refer to the [Virtual Server Billing Statistics](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Statistics_v7.1PrivateBeta) page.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Recipes

You can view recipes assigned to the suspended VS at Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt;** Virtual Servers** &gt; *Label *&gt; **Overview** &gt;** [Recipes](.Virtual_Server_Recipes_v7.1PrivateBeta) **tab. If you have some custom recipe variables attached to the suspended VS, you can view them at Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** &gt; *Label *&gt; **Overview** &gt;** [Recipe Variables](.Virtual_Server_Recipe_Custom_Variables_v7.1PrivateBeta) **tab. For other operations related to recipes, you need to unsuspend your virtual server. 

For more information on [recipes](.Virtual_Server_Recipes_v7.1PrivateBeta) and [custom recipe variables](.Virtual_Server_Recipe_Custom_Variables_v7.1PrivateBeta), refer to the linked pages.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Service Add-Ons

You can view service add-ons assigned to the suspended VS at Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt;** Virtual Servers** &gt; *Label *&gt; **Overview** &gt;** [Service add-ons](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Virtual+Server+Service+Add-ons+v6.8)** tab. You can also [unassign](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Virtual+Server+Service+Add-ons+v6.8) a service add-on from the suspended VS. For other operations related to service add-ons, you need to unsuspend your virtual server.

For more information on service add-ons, refer to the [Service Add-Ons](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Service+Add-Ons+v6.8) section.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Network Interfaces

You can view the virtual network interfaces allocated to the suspended VS at Control Panel &gt; **Cloud **&gt; **Virtual Servers** &gt; *Label *&gt; **Networking **&gt;** [Network Interfaces](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Networks_v7.1PrivateBeta)** tab, including details about the network join, port speed, and primary network interface. For other operations related to managing network interfaces, you need to unsuspend your virtual server. 

For more information on managing network interfaces, refer to the [Virtual Server Network Interface](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Networks_v7.1PrivateBeta) section.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Firewall Rules

You can view firewall rules that were added to VS before its suspension at Control Panel &gt; **Cloud **&gt; **Virtual Servers** &gt; *Label *&gt; **Networking **&gt;** [Firewall](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Networks_v7.1PrivateBeta) **tab. You can also [remove](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Manage+Virtual+Server+Networks+v6.8) a firewall rule from the suspended VS. For other operations related to firewall settings, you need to unsuspend your virtual server.

For more information on firewall rules, refer to the [Set Virtual Server Firewall Rules](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Networks_v7.1PrivateBeta) page.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Disks

You can view the list of disks allocated to the suspended VS at Control Panel &gt; **Cloud **&gt; **Virtual Servers** &gt; *Label *&gt; **Storage** &gt;** [Disks](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Manage+Virtual+Server+Disks+v7.0)** tab. In the same tab, you can also access the disk IOPS (Input/Output Operations per Second) statistics. For other operations related to disks settings, you need to unsuspend your virtual server.

For more information on how to manage disks, refer to the [Virtual Server Disks](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Disks_v7.1PrivateBeta) and [Virtual Server Disk IOPS Statistics](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Statistics_v7.1PrivateBeta) sections.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Backups

You can [view](https://docs.onapp.com/adminguide/latest/identity-management/user-accounts#id-.UserAccountsv7.0-SuspendandActivateUsers) the suspended VS backups that have already been taken and that are scheduled to be taken at Control Panel &gt; **Cloud **&gt; **Virtual Servers** &gt; *Label *&gt; [**Backups**](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Backups_v7.1PrivateBeta)tab, [take](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Backups_v7.1PrivateBeta) the backup and [convert](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Backups_v7.1PrivateBeta) it to a template. For other operations related to managing backups, you need to unsuspend your virtual server.

For more information on the VS backups, refer to the [Virtual Server Backups](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Backups_v7.1PrivateBeta) page.


