# .Manage ISO Virtual Servers v7.1PrivateBeta

OnApp introduces ability to build a virtual server from [ISO](.Manage_ISOs_v7.1PrivateBeta). Such virtual servers are based on specific [ISO templates](.Manage_ISOs_v7.1PrivateBeta), which you upload to the cloud.

-   It is required that you perform additional network configuration during ISO installation. For more information, refer to **Confirmation** step of [ISO VS creation wizard](.Create_ISO_Virtual_Server_v7.1PrivateBeta).
-   Creating a server from ISO is applicable for virtual and smart servers only.
-   [Upload the required ISO](.Manage_ISOs_v7.1PrivateBeta) first to the cloud before creating a server based on it.

Ensure that [ISO permissions](.OnApp_Permissions_v7.1PrivateBeta) are on before managing ISO virtual servers. For more information about permissions, refer to the [OnApp Permissions](.OnApp_Permissions_v7.1PrivateBeta) section of this guide.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## View ISO Virtual Server Details

To view details of a specific virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers **menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you're interested in.
3.  The screen that appears loads the VS properties, notes, activity log and [tools for managing your VS](.Manage_ISO_Virtual_Servers_v7.1PrivateBeta).

The VS properties page gives a general overview of the VS details:

-   *VIP status* (on/off). Click the icon to change the status.
-   Template this VS is built on
-   *Power status* & **ON/OFF/REBOOT** buttons.

    Clicking the OFF button performs graceful shutdown and then powers off the virtual server after the timeout set in [Configuration settings](.Configuration_Settings_v7.1PrivateBeta).

-   Auto-backups - move the slider to enable or disable auto-backups for this server. For more information refer to ISO Virtual Server Backup Schedules.
-   Acceleration allowed - move the slider to the right to allow acceleration for this VS or move this slider to the left to prohibit acceleration for this VS. Acceleration status of the VS will be changed on the next CDN Sync Runner run (default value 20 minutes). To edit CDN Sync Runner delay, refer to the Edit Infrastructure Configuration section of this guide.
-   *Boot from CD* - move the slider to the right to boot a VS from the location where ISOs are stored. If this slider is disabled, then VS will be booted from the disk where VS is provisioned.
-   *Built from ISO -* green tick indicates that this VS is built from ISO.
-   *Compute resource - *click the Compute resource name to see its details.
-   *Location -* click the location to view the details of the location group with which the VS is associated.
-   *Owner *- click the owner name to see its details.
-   *IP Addresses - *only the first five IP addresses are displayed on the virtual server properties page. To view the list of all virtual server IP addresses, mouse over IP addresses area or go to the **Networking &gt; IP addresses** tab.
-   *Estimated Price per hour* - this sum does not take into consideration the free limits for resources set in the bucket. Therefore, the final price for the server might differ from the sum indicated here.
-   *CPU(s)*
-   *CPU priority or CPU units*
-   *Disk Size* - the total amount of disk size
-   *Memory*
-   *Disk backups* - the total amount of backups
-   CPU usage chart
-   Network usage chart - data sent and data received in GB per hour

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## View ISO Virtual Server Transactions and Logs

The system records a detailed log of all the transactions happening to your virtual servers. The list of transactions logged by the system includes:

-   Provision virtual server
-   Startup virtual server
-   Stop virtual server
-   Resize virtual server without reboot
-   Configure Operating System
-   Build disk
-   Resize disk
-   Format disk
-   Destroy disk
-   Destroy virtual server
-   Destroy template
-   Download template
-   Update firewall

To view transactions for a virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you're interested in.
3.  The details screen for that virtual server shows recent transactions in the **Activity Log **section. 

To cancel pending tasks, click the** Cancel All Pending Tasks for this virtual server** button.

You can also view the details of a particular log item by clicking its Ref number. The page that loads shows the log output and the following details:

-   *date* -  time in the \[YYYY\]\[MM\]\[DD\]T\[hh\]\[mm\]\[ss\]Z format
-   *action* - the action name
-   *status* - the action status (Complete, Warn, Pending, or Failed)
-   *ref* - the log item's Ref number
-   *target* - the action target
-   *started at* - the time when the action was started
-   *completed at* - the time when the action was completed
-   *template* - template of the server the action refers to
-   *compute resource* - the label of compute resource
-   *initiator* -  the user who initiated the action

If you want to see only the detailed output, you can hide log info with the arrow button in the upper right corner.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit ISO Virtual Server 

You can edit resources for all VSs. Depending on the OS it is built on, some VSs can have their CPU and RAM resized without needing to be powered off ("resize without reboot"). If the VS template allows resize without reboot, the resize should be completed automatically: you will be returned to the VS details screen and see a message indicating the resize was successful. If the template does not allow this, you will be asked to confirm that the VS will need rebooting so that the resize can take place.

Windows virtual servers cannot be resized without reboot.

The Edit Virtual Server screen will differ depending on the way the VS resources were selected: either manually or using an instance package. To adjust VS resources:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click the label of the server you want to resize, to show its details screen.
3.  Click the** Actions **button, point to **Options**, and select the **Edit Virtual Server** link.

    *For virtual servers built by selecting resources manually:*

    -   Change CPU cores, CPU priority/units and RAM values.

    *For virtual servers built using instance packages:*
    *
    *

    -   Choose the new instance package for your virtual server. Click the instance package to select it. After that, the instance package you have chosen will be highlighted in green. 

        Those instance packages that have resources incompatible with the compute zone, on which the VS is built, will be greyed out. Greyed out instance packages cannot be selected.

        You can only choose from those instance packages that offer more disk size than the VS currently uses.

        After you select a new instance package you can use the extra disk size to [create a new disk](.ISO_Virtual_Server_Disks_v7.1PrivateBeta) for the VS or [make the existing VS disk larger](.ISO_Virtual_Server_Disks_v7.1PrivateBeta).

    You can also edit the *Time Zone* parameter for all Windows KVM virtual servers. After you edit the server's time zone, you need to stop and then, start up the VS. Currently, the time zone is set at the compute resource side only. Therefore, users need to set the target time zone inside a Windows VS manually. Setting the correct time zone at the compute resource side helps to keep correct time inside a VS after starting it if time synchronization is not completed for some reason.

4.  Click **Save**.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Segregate ISO Virtual Server

If required, you can instruct OnApp to make sure a VS is never booted on the same compute resource as another specific VS (contact [OnApp Support](https://help.onapp.com/hc/en-us/requests/new) or your account manager on <amteam@onapp.com>). This may be important if, for example, you have two name servers or a load balanced web server, and you need to keep VSs on separate physical servers. .

To isolate one VS from another:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers **menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you want to segregate.
3.  On the screen that appears, click the **Actions **button, point to **Performance**, and then click **Segregate Virtual Server**.
4.  In the dialogue box that pops up, use the drop-down menu to choose a VS you want to keep away from.
5.  Click the **Segregate Virtual server** button to finish.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Clone ISO Virtual Server

You can create a clone based on the same resources as the origin ISO virtual server. The cloned virtual server inherits resources from the origin as follows. 

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Resource</th>
<th>Cloned Virtual Server</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Owner</td>
<td>The same as the origin virtual server.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Hostname, password, and label</p></td>
<td><p>When cloning an ISO VS, you can only change its label. By default, the label remains the same as the origin ISO virtual server's one, but with Clone in the label, if you clone the server without changing the label. For example, Clone Origin Label.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><ul>
<li>Compute, data store, and network resources &amp; zones</li>
<li>Recipes, recipe variables, and service add-ons</li>
<li>Firewall rules</li>
</ul></td>
<td>The same as the origin virtual server.<br />
If there are no available resources on the same data store, network, and compute resource, you cannot clone a virtual server. </td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>IP address</p></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Virtual servers built from Windows or Linux OVA templates - a random IP address is assigned from an IP range in the origin network.</li>
<li>Virtual servers built from OVA templates with Other OS type - an IP address from the origin virtual server is assigned. After a virtual server is cloned and before you start it, you should <a href="https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.OVA+Virtual+Server+Networks+v6.6">assign a new IP address</a>.</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Swap disk</td>
<td>A new swap disk is created on the cloned virtual server.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Backups</p></td>
<td>The backups of the origin virtual server are not cloned.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

To clone a virtual server, follow the next procedure:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers**.
2.  Click a label of the virtual server that you want to clone.
3.  Click **Actions**, point to **Options**, and then click **Clone Virtual Server**. 
4.  In the dialog box, you can change the following properties for the KVM VS:
    -   *Label* 
    -   *Hostname* - a hostname of the virtual server. The hostname can consist of letters \[A-Z a-z\], digits \[0-9\], and dash \[ - \]. For more info on hostname validation, refer to [RFC documentation](http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1123.html).

        Additional Consideration for Windows

        The following symbols are not allowed for Windows-based virtual servers:

        -   percent  \[%\]
        -   quotation marks \[“ “\]
        -   angle brackets \[&lt;&gt;\]
        -   vertical bar \[ | \]
        -   caret \[^\]
        -   ampersand \[&\]
        -   parentheses \[( )\]

        -   *Password* - password for the virtual server. It can consist of 6-99 symbols, including letters \[A-Z a-z\], digits \[0-9\], dash \[ - \], underscore \[ \_ \], and the following special characters: ~ ! @ \# $ \* \_ - + = \` \\\\ { } \[ \] : ; ' , . ? /. You can use both lower and uppercase letters. If you don't enter a password, it will be generated automatically.

        -   *Password confirmation* - repeat the password to confirm it
        -   *Encrypt password* - move the slider to the right to encrypt your password

5.  Then click **Clone Virtual Server **to confirm the action. 

After you confirm the action, several transactions are run to complete the cloning process. You can check a status of each transaction in [Activity Log](.Logs_v7.1PrivateBeta) of the virtual server. After the virtual server is cloned, it is powered off until you [start it](#id-.ManageISOVirtualServersv7.1PrivateBeta-power_option). 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Migrate ISO Virtual Server

 Hot migration is available for VSs created from ISO if *Allowed hot migrate *slider was enabled during [ISO upload](.Manage_ISOs_v7.1PrivateBeta) or during [ISO editing](.Manage_ISOs_v7.1PrivateBeta).

OnApp allows migration of ISO virtual servers between compute resources that share common data stores (or data store zones).

To migrate a virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you want to migrate.
3.  Click the **Actions **button, point to **Options**, and click the **Migrate Virtual Server** link.
4.  In the window that appears, choose the target compute resource from the drop-down menu.
5.  Click the** Start Migration** button.

After migration, the power status of your virtual server remains the same as before the migration.
OnApp administrators can control user access over virtual server migration. Using OnApp permissions, you can allow/forbid users to perform migration of all virtual servers, or their own servers only. This is handled via the Control Panel's **Roles and Sets** menu.

Shut down the virtual server before destroying it. If you are deleting a VS that is running, the VS will be deleted after the time set in Timeout Before Shutting Down VSs configuration parameter.
To remove the virtual server from the cloud:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  On the screen that appears, you'll see the list of all virtual servers in the cloud. Click the label of the virtual server you want to delete.
3.  On the virtual server's screen, click the **Actions **button, point to **Options**, then select **Delete Virtual Server.**
4.  Confirm by clicking the **Destroy** button.

IMPORTANT:

-   You won't be able to restore a virtual server after deleting it.
-   Deleting a virtual server removes all data stored on that virtual server.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## ISO Virtual Server Power Options

To manage a virtual server power options:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click the label of the required virtual server.
3.  Click the **Actions **button on the VS's screen and then point to **Power** to expand the menu.
4.  This menu enables you to perform the following power actions on VSs (the exact list shown depends on the VS status):

-   -   *Reboot Virtual Server* - powers off and then restarts the VS.
    -   *Reboot in Recovery *- powers off and then restarts the VS in the recovery mode.

    -   *Suspend * - stops a VS, changes its status to suspended and disables all the other actions on VS, unless unsuspended.
    -   *Shut Down Virtual Server* – pops up a dialogue box, where you can either Shut Down VS (terminates the VS gracefully) or Power Off VS (terminates the VS forcefully).
    -   *Startup Virtual Server* - queues a start-up action for a VS that's currently powered off.

        When you start up a VS, it might be implicitly cold migrated if the current compute resource does not have sufficient resources. For more information, refer to [Virtual Server Provisioning](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Virtual+Server+Provisioning+v6.4).

    -   *Startup on Recovery* - starts the VS in recovery mode.
    -   *Boot from ISO*  - boots the VS from an ISO. You can boot virtual servers from your own ISOs or the ISOs that are uploaded and made publicly available by other users. If you boot a VS from an ISO with the RAM requirement larger than the VS's RAM, the transaction will fail.  Make sure that you have enabled the  *Any power action on own virtual servers *and *Allow own virtual servers to boot from ISO *permissions for the user to have access to this feature.

As soon as you boot a VS from the installation ISO, OnApp may lose control of any components (networks, disks, etc.). The only available actions will be start and stop a VS. Be aware, that all the contents of the disk may be also deleted.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Change Owner of ISO Virtual Server

To change owner of the ISO virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click the label of the required virtual server.
3.  Click the **Actions **button on the VS's screen, point to **Administrations** and select **Change Owner**.
4.  Choose a user to whom you want to pass ownership of the VS from the drop-down list.
5.  Click the **Change Owner** button.

If you want to change an owner of the VS, which was built using an instance package, ensure that the new owner has permission to create VS using instance package and appropriate instance package in the bucket. Otherwise you will not be able to change the ownership of this VS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


