# .Manage Virtual Server Backup Resources v7.1PrivateBeta

Backup resources are based on [plugins](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Backup+Plugin+System+v6.7) that enable running virtual server backups on third-party systems. Backup resources become available for your virtual servers if you complete the following procedures: 

-   [Install Backup Plugin](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/IN/Installing+Plugins)
-   [Create Backup Resource](.Create_and_Manage_Backup_Resources_v7.1PrivateBeta)
-   [Create Backup Resource Zone](.Create_and_Manage_Backup_Resource_Zones_v7.1PrivateBeta)
-   [Attach Backup Resource to Backup Resource Zone](.Create_and_Manage_Backup_Resource_Zones_v7.1PrivateBeta)
-   [Attach Backup Resource Zone to Compute Zone](.Manage_Compute_Zone_Backup_Resource_Zones_v7.1PrivateBeta)
-   [Add Auto Backup Presets](.Create_and_Manage_Auto_Backup_Presets_v7.1PrivateBeta)

When all the procedures are completed, you can add a backup resource to virtual servers from a compute zone to which you attached a backup resource zone. In this document, you can find information on how to manage backup resources for your virtual servers. 

You can use the Veeam plugin only for VMware resources such as [VMware Cloud Director](https://docs.onapp.com/vcd) and [vCenter](https://docs.onapp.com/vcenter).

-   Auto installation of R1Soft backup agent on a virtual server might fail on some versions of Windows templates. If you face any issues with using R1Soft on Windows virtual servers, please contact OnApp Support.  
-   If you want to delete a virtual server that has an attached backup resource, first detach the resource. If you delete a VS with the attached backup resource, synchronization between OnApp and your third-party backup system fails. It can affect other virtual servers that use this backup resource since the list of available recovery points will not be updated in OnApp CP.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## View Backup Resources

To view the list of backup resources available for your virtual server, follow the next steps: 

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu. 
2.  Click a label of a required virtual server. 
3.  Expand the **Backups** menu and click the **Backup resources** button. 
4.  On the page that appears, you will see the list of backup resources and the following details: 
    -   *Label - *the name of the backup resource
    -   *Enabled - *the status that indicates whether the backup resource is enabled (*YES*) or not (*NO*) 
    -   *Plugin *- the name of the backup plugin

5.  Click a label of a required backup resource to view the following details: 
    -   *Label - *the name of the backup resource

    -   *Backup resource zone *- the backup resource zone to which the backup resource is assigned
    -   *Enabled - *the status that indicates whether the backup resource is enabled (*YES*) or not (*NO*) 
    -   *Plugin *- the name of the backup plugin
    -   *Primary host - *the primary address (either hostname or IP address) used to connect to the third-party backup system

    -   *Secondary host - *the secondary address (either hostname or IP address) used to connect to the third-party backup system

    -   *Username* - the username used to connect to the third-party backup system

To enable or disable a backup resource for a virtual server, refer to the sections below. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Attach Backup Resource to Virtual Server

To attach a backup resource to a virtual server, follow the next steps: 

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu. 
2.  Click a label of a required virtual server. 
3.  Expand the **Backups** menu and click the **Backup resources** button. 
4.  Click the "**+**" button next to the backup resource that you want to enable for this virtual server. 

-   When the backup resource is attached to VS, backups of the virtual server are run according to the [Auto Backup Presets](.Create_and_Manage_Auto_Backup_Presets_v7.1PrivateBeta) configured for the backup resource. To view the list of available recovery points and restore the virtual server from a recovery point, refer to the [Recovery Points](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Recovery_Points_v7.1PrivateBeta) section. 
-   You can view a log of all backup plugin related operations in the Activity Log section of a destination virtual server.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Remove Backup Resource from Virtual Server

To remove a backup resource from a virtual server, follow the next steps: 

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu. 
2.  Click a label of a required virtual server. 
3.  Expand the **Backups** menu and click the **Backup resources** button. 
4.  Click the "**-**" button next to the backup resource that you want to disable for this virtual server. 

After you remove a Veeam-based backup resource from a virtual server, a corresponding backup schedule remains on the Veeam side. You can disable the schedule via Veeam Backup & Replication UI.


