# .Manage Virtual Server Statistics v7.1PrivateBeta

For your convenience, the system tracks VS performance and generates statistics on CPU utilization, billing, network interface usage, and disk IOPS. In this document you can find information on how to view virtual server statistics.  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Virtual Server CPU Utilization

OnApp tracks CPU usage for virtual servers and generates charts that help analyze VS performance. 

The charts show the total CPU usage for all the cores of this particular VS for a specified time period.

The vertical axis shows the CPU usage percentage (CPU percentage is the core-independent quantity). The horizontal axis defines a time period.

To see CPU usage statistics:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt;** Virtual Servers **menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you're interested in.
3.  Click the **Overview** tab &gt; **CPU Usage**.
4.  On the screen that appears, the top chart shows CPU usage for the last 24 hours. The bottom chart shows usage for the last three months (if there is enough data). If there is less data available, the chart will show utilization for the time available.
5.  Move the **Show in My Timezone** slider to the right if you want to show bandwidth statistics according to your profile's timezone settings.
6.  To zoom into a time period, click and drag in a chart. Click the **Reset Zoom **button to zoom out again.
7.  You can filter the statistics by date and time - select the time period from the drop-down menu and click the **Apply** button.

To see what percentage of Compute resource CPU resource a VS takes, go to your Control Panel's Virtual Servers menu and click the label of the VS you're interested in. On the screen that appears, the CPU(s)/Shares parameter displays the amount of CPU resource given to this VS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Virtual Server Billing Statistics

OnApp has a record of all the charges applied to your VSs for the last three month period. If a virtual server was created less than three months ago, statistics are recorded for the VS's existence to date. You can view all statistics available, or those for a shorter period by setting a Start and End time.

-   The price parameters on this page do not take into consideration the free limits for resources set in the bucket.
-   When generating billing statistics, OnApp takes the last state of the VS during the hour. For example, if a VS was turned on at 6.15 and turned off at 6.59 it will be considered as being off for the whole hour and its resources will be billed according to the OFF prices set in the bucket. However, the VS's disk and network interface usage can still be billed in case the VS was on during that hour.

To view billing statistics for a virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you're interested in.
3.  Click the **Overview **&gt; **Billing Statistics** tab.
4.  You can filter the statistics by date and time - select the time period from the drop-down menu and click the **Apply** button. By default the statistics are generated for the last three months or the actual VS existence period.
5.  Move the **Show in my Timezone** slider to the right if you want to view billing statistics according to your profile's timezone settings. By default, billing statistics is shown in UTC.
6.  On the page that appears you will see the report with the following details:

-   -   *Date* – particular date and time for the generated statistics
    -   *Users* – the virtual server owner. Click the owner name to see the User Profile (user details)
    -   *Virtual Servers* – the virtual server name with the total due for VS resources (CPU priority, CPUs, memory and template resources) for the point of time specified in the Date column.
    -   *Network Interfaces Usage* – the total due for the network interfaces used by this VS for the point of time specified in the Date column. Click the network interface name to see its details.
    -   *Disks* *Usage* – the list of disks assigned to this VS with the total due for the "data\_read", "data\_written", "reads\_completed", "writes\_completed" resources for particular disk. The charges for the disk size resource are included into the Costs column.
    -   *Costs* – the total due for the Virtual Servers, Network Interfaces and Disks resources at the point of time specified in the Date column.

Scroll down to see Total Amount (the total due for the whole billing statistics period).

### Save as CSV

You can save your billing statistics to a file in a CSV format. To download a CSV file with billing statistics for a selected period of time, click the **Save as CSV** button. The download will start automatically after you click the button.

The CSV file includes the following information:

-   stat\_time - a particular hour for which the statistics were generated
-   vs\_id - an ID of a virtual server
-   resource\_category - a resource for which the statistics were generated. The resource category can be a disk, network\_interface, compute, template, instance\_package, and service\_add\_on.

-   resource\_id - an ID of a resource
-   metric\_name - a name of a metric for which the statistics were generated. The metric can be a disk\_size, data\_read, data\_written, reads\_completed, writes\_completed, ip\_addresses, rate, data\_received, data\_sent, cpu\_shares, cpus, memory, cpu\_usage, template, count (for instance packages, templates, and service add-ons), etc. 
-   usage - the amount of used resources that can be the following: 
    -   GBs of disk size, Kbs of data read/written, the number of reads/writes.
    -   The number of IPs, the port speed in Mb per second, the data sent and received in KBs.
    -   The count for the instance package, template, and service add-on categories. 
-   cost - the total due for the VS usage for a particular hour specified in the stat\_time field

For virtual servers created from instance packages, the resource category is *instance\_package*, the metric name is *count* and the usage is "*1"*.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Virtual Server Network Interface Statistics

OnApp tracks network usage for virtual servers and generates charts that help to analyze network performance. To see statistics on network utilization for a virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers **menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you're interested in.
3.  Click the **Networking** &gt;** Network Interfaces** tab.
4.  Click the **Interface usage** icon next to the network you're interested in.
5.  On the screen that appears, the following charts are available:
    -   *Instant Bandwidth *- the chart shows the average inbound and outbound speed in Megabits per second (Mbps) of data received and sent over the network respectively. The average speed is shown on a per-minute basis for the last 24 hours.
    -   *Hourly* *Data Transfer* - the chart shows how much data in Gigabytes (GB) is received and sent over the network per hour. The amount of received and sent data is shown on a per-hour basis for a period of time up to three months. 

6.  To zoom into a time period, click and drag in a chart. Click the **Reset zoom** button to zoom out again.
7.  To filter the statistics by date and time, select the time period from the drop-down menu above the charts and click the **Apply** button.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Virtual Server Disk IOPS Statistics

The system tracks IOPS (Input/Output Operations per Second) for virtual servers and generates charts that help analyze VS disk performance. The data presented in the chart are for the periods during which the statistics were gathered, typically 3 minutes. To see IOPS for a virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt;** Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you're interested in.
3.  Click the** Storage** &gt; **Disks **tab.
4.  Click the **Actions **button next to the required disk, and then choose **IOPS**.** 
    **
5.  There are four charts on the screen that appears:
    -   IOPS for the last hour
    -   IOPS for the last 24 hours
    -   Data written/read (in Kb) for the last 24 hours
    -   Data written/read (in Kb) for the last hour

6.  To zoom into a time period, click and drag in a chart. Click the **Reset Zoom** button to zoom out again.
7.  You can filter the statistics by date and time - select the time period from the drop-down menu and click the **Apply** button.

The OnApp API allows you to limit the Hourly IOPS and Hourly data by setting the limit=N parameter, where the N variable is the number of hours for which the charts will display the info.


