# .Manage Virtual Server Recovery Points v7.1PrivateBeta

Recovery points are created as a result of the virtual server data replication on a third-party backup service. Integration with the backup service is handled by means of a plugin that you can [install](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/IN/Installing+Plugins) to your Control Panel.

The recovery point represents a point-in-time full backup from which you can restore a virtual server. In OnApp CP, recovery points become available after you: 

-   [Attach](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Backup_Resources_v7.1PrivateBeta) a backup resource to a virtual server
-   [Create](.Create_and_Manage_Auto_Backup_Presets_v7.1PrivateBeta) an auto backup preset and the preset runs according to a schedule

You can also [сreate](#id-.ManageVirtualServerRecoveryPointsv7.1PrivateBeta-create-rp) a recovery point manually after you complete the preceding steps. In this document, you can find information on how to create and manage recovery points for a virtual server. 

-   For the R1Soft backup plugin, you can set the total amount of recovery points that will be created for a VS by the Max recovery points option while [creating an auto backup preset](.Create_and_Manage_Auto_Backup_Presets_v7.1PrivateBeta). After the maximum limit is reached, new recovery points overwrite the existing ones.
-   For the Veeam backup plugin, you use [Retention Policy](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/vsphere/retention_policy.html?ver=95) in Veeam Backup & Replication UI to control the number of recovery points that are retained on a disk. After the specified number of recovery points is exceeded, the earliest recovery points are automatically deleted to retain the new ones.
-   The [Recovery Points](.OnApp_Permissions_v7.1PrivateBeta) related permissions are disabled by default for the *User* role. To enable users to access and manage recovery points, edit the corresponding permissions set for the *User* role.

You can use the Veeam plugin only for VMware resources such as [VMware Cloud Director](https://docs.onapp.com/vcd) and [vCenter](https://docs.onapp.com/vcenter).

Starting with OnApp 6.3, the [R1Soft](https://www.r1soft.com/) backup plugin that we support is 6.12.0. If your R1Soft version is more recent than 6.12.0, we suggest downgrading to this version if possible.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## View Recovery Points

To view the list of recovery points available for a virtual server, follow the next steps: 

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu. 
2.  Click a label of a required virtual server. 
3.  Click the **Backups** menu and then click the **Recovery points** button. 
4.  On the page that appears, you will see the list of recovery points and the following details:*
    *
    -   *Size* - the size of the recovery point from which the VS can be restored  

    -   *Created at* - the date when the recovery point was created
    -   *State *- the state of the recovery point (e.g. *available*, *locked*, *merged*, etc.)
    -   *Resource* - the backup resource on which the recovery point is created

To create a recovery point or restore a virtual server from a recovery point, refer to the following sections. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Create Recovery Point

To create a recovery point, follow the next steps: 

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu. 
2.  Click a label of a required virtual server. 
3.  Click the **Backups** tab and then click the **Recovery points** button. 
4.  Click the **Backup now** button. 
5.  In the pop-up box, select a backup resource and click the **Backup now** button. 

After you complete the procedure, the *ImmediateVirtualServerBackup* action is initiated to create a new recovery point. The log of the action is available in the *Activity Log* section of a virtual server. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Restore Virtual Server from Recovery Point

To restore a virtual server from a recovery point, follow the next steps: 

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Cloud &gt; Virtual Servers menu. 
2.  Click a label of a required virtual server. 
3.  Click the Backups tab and then click the Recovery points button. 
4.  Click the Restore button next to the recovery point from which you want to restore the virtual server.
5.  Click the Ok button to confirm your action. 

The action for restoring the virtual server from the recovery point will be scheduled. The log of the action is available in the Activity Log section of a virtual server. 

-   For the R1Soft backup plugin, virtual servers that are based on KVM compute resources are rebooted in [recovery mode](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Power_Options_v7.1PrivateBeta) before restoration. To configure your plugin to apply the same logic, refer to [Create Backup Plugin](.Backup_Plugin_System_v7.1PrivateBeta).
-   For the Veem backup plugin, you can set advanced options to automatically power on virtual servers after restoring or to perform an incremental restore. For more information, see Manage Advanced Options.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Browse Through Recovery Point

You can browse through files and directories available within a recovery point. To browse through a recovery point, follow the next steps: 

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Cloud &gt; Virtual Servers menu. 
2.  Click a label of a required virtual server. 
3.  Click the Backups tab and then click the Recovery points button. 
4.  Click the Browse button next to the recovery point you are interested in.  
5.  On the page that appears, you will see the list of files and directories. You can expand and collapse directories to see more or fewer subentries. You will also see the following details:

-   -   Size - a size that is available only for files 
    -   Last modified - a date when a file or directory was last modified 

At the Browse recovery point page, you can restore particular files and directories from a recovery point. For more information on restoring files and directories, see the following section. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Restore Files from Recovery Point

You can restore particular files and directories from a recovery point. To select and restore the required entries, follow the next steps: 

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu. 
2.  Click a label of a required virtual server. 
3.  Click the **Backups** tab and then the **Recovery points** button. 
4.  Click the **Browse** button next to the recovery point you are interested in.  
5.  Select checkboxes next to the files and directories that you want to restore.
6.  Click the Restore selected files button.
7.  Click the Ok button to confirm your action. 

After you click the button, the RestoreFileEntries action is scheduled to restore the selected files from the recovery point. The log of the action is available in the Activity Log section of a virtual server.


