# .Manage Compute Zone Backup Resource Zones v7.1PrivateBeta

Backup resource zones include backup resources built on [plugins](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Backup+Plugin+System+v6.7) that enable integration of a third-party backup service with OnApp. You can attach backup resource zones to compute zones if you complete the following procedures: 

-   [Install Backup Plugin](https://docs.onapp.com/display/IN/Installing+Plugins)
-   [Create Backup Resource](.Create_and_Manage_Backup_Resources_v7.1PrivateBeta)
-   [Create Backup Resource Zone](.Create_and_Manage_Backup_Resource_Zones_v7.1PrivateBeta)
-   [Attach Backup Resource to Backup Resource Zone](.Create_and_Manage_Backup_Resource_Zones_v7.1PrivateBeta)

Adding a backup resource zone to the destination compute zone enables you to handle virtual server backups on the integrated system. As a result, virtual servers that run on compute resources in this compute zone can be backed up by means of a backup plugin. 

In this document, you can find information on how to attach and remove backup resource zones to and from compute zones. 

Backup Plugin System is available in preview mode and is subject to change in the future OnApp releases.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Attach Backup Resource Zone to Compute Zone

To attach a backup resource zone to compute zone, follow the next steps:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt;** Settings** menu. 
2.  Click the **Compute Zones** icon. 
3.  Click a label of a compute zone you want to attach a backup resource zone to. 
4.  Expand the **Tools** menu and click **Manage Backup Resource Zones** button. 
5.  On the page that appears, you will see a list of backup resource zones that you can add to the compute zone. 

    You can attach a backup resource zone from the same [location group](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Location+Groups+v6.4) as a compute zone. The backup resource zones from unmatching location groups are not displayed on this page.

6.  Select the required backup resource zone from the drop-down menu and click the **Submit** button.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Remove Backup Resource Zone from Compute Zone

To remove a backup resource zone from a compute zone, follow the next steps:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt;** Settings** menu. 
2.  Click the **Compute Zones** icon. 
3.  Click a label of a compute zone you want to remove a backup resource zone from. 
4.  Expand the **Tools** menu and click **Manage Backup Resource Zones** button. 
5.  On the page that appears, you will see a list of backup resource zones added to the compute zone. 
6.  Click the '**-**' button next to the required backup resource zone to remove it from the compute zone. 


