# .Manage Virtual Server Advanced Configuration v7.1PrivateBeta

You can manage your virtual servers at a raw configuration level by editing the XML configuration file available for each VS in your Control Panel. The functionality is available for virtual servers that are built on KVM compute resources. 

IMPORTANT

Virtual servers with modified XML configuration are not supported by the OnApp support team.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Enable Advanced Configuration

To enable managing the advanced configuration for virtual servers in your Control Panel: 

1.  Go to the Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **Configuration** menu. 
2.  Open the **Defaults** tab. 
3.  Move the** Allow advanced VS management** slider to the right. 
4.  Click the **Save Configuration** button. 

Please note that the system will restart OnApp services automatically after you save new configuration.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit XML Configuration

To edit the XML config file of a virtual server, follow the next steps:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt;** Virtual Servers **menu and click a label of a specific virtual server.
2.  Expand the **Actions **menu, point to **Options**, then click the **Edit XML Config** button.
3.  Click the **Unlock** button to be able to edit the XML file. In the pop-up box, click **Yes** to confirm your action.
4.  Edit configuration and click the **Save** button to apply changes. In the pop-up box, select whether you want to save changes with or without a reboot. 

    -   To revert changes that you made before saving configuration, click the **Cancel **button.
    -   To enable failover and migration functionality for the VS with modified XML config, move the **Enable failover and migration** slider to the right. 

5.  If you want to discard all changes, click the Reset to default button at the Edit XML Config page. In the pop-up box, select whether you want to reset configuration with or without a reboot. 
    This action initiates deletion of all changes you have applied in the XML configuration except for RAM and CPU related modifications. As a result, the XML configuration file will be reset to default and locked.

## Important Considerations

If you edit RAM or CPU Cores for virtual server:

-   After clicking the **Save** button, the RAM and CPU cores are validated according to the bucket settings and the price for the resources can be changed. If the bucket does not allow the changes you applied, the appropriate message will be displayed.
-   The **Reset to default** button will not restore the RAM and CPU values to the previous state.

You cannot perform the following actions after you save changes in the VS XML configuration file:

-   Edit VS
-   Create/edit/migrate/delete VS disks and set disk IOPS limits
-   Create/edit/delete network interfaces

The failover and migration for the VS with modified XML config is available only if you select the **Enable failover and migration** checkbox while editing the config file.


