# .Manage Template Recipes v7.1PrivateBeta

In this document, you can find information on how to manage template recipes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Assign Recipe

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Templates **&gt;** Templates List** menu. You'll see a list of templates on your system.
2.  Click the** Actions **icon next to the template you want to change, then select** Manage Recipes.**
3.  The screen that follows shows details of all the recipes in the cloud:
    -   The right pane displays the list of events to which the recipes can be assigned to.
    -   The left pane shows the list of all recipes in the cloud.

4.  Use drag and drop feature to assign a recipe to a desired event:
    1.  Click the arrow button in front of the required event to unfold it.
    2.  Select the required recipe in the left pane and hold it down with the left mouse button.
    3.  Drag the recipe up to the right pane and release the mouse button to drop the recipe and add it to the required event.

You can assign template recipes to the following events:

-   *VS provisioning -* run the recipe during the virtual server provisioning
-   *VS network rebuild* - run the recipe while rebuilding a network
-   *VS disk added* - run the recipe while adding a disk to the virtual server
-   *IP address allocated for VS* - run the recipe when adding an IP address to the VS network interface
-   *IP address revoked from VS *- run the recipe when removing an IP address from the VS network interface
-   *VS network interface added* - run the recipe while adding a network interface to the virtual server
-   *VS network interface removed - *run the recipe while deleting a network interface from the virtual server
-   *VS disk resized* - run the recipe while resizing a virtual server disk
-   *VS resize* - run the recipe while resizing the virtual server
-   *VS IP address add* - run the recipe while adding an IP address the virtual server
-   *VS IP address remove* - run the recipe while removing an IP address from the virtual server
-   *VS start* - run the recipe while starting the virtual server
-   *VS reboot* - run the recipe while rebooting the virtual server
-   *VS hot migrate* - run the recipe during the hot migration of the virtual server
-   *VS hot full migrate* - run the recipe during the hot migration of the virtual server with disk
-   *VS failover* - run the recipe during the failover process

To use recipes with [own](https://docs.onapp.com/display/MISC/OnApp+Cloud+Windows+Template+Creation+Guide) Windows templates, the templates must be version 3.1 or later.

Note that a VS related recipe is always executed first, for example:

1.  You have two recipes, one assigned to a template and another assigned to a VS.
2.  You assign both of them to a required event.
3.  After the VS is built, the VS related recipe is run first.
4.  Next, the template recipe is run.

This execution order is also relevant when the VS related recipe and template recipe are both assigned to the same event.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Delete Recipe

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Templates **&gt;** Templates List** menu. You'll see a list of templates on your system.
2.  Click the** Actions **icon next to the template you want to change, then select** Manage Recipes.**
3.  Click the arrow button in front of the required event to view the list of recipes assigned to it.
4.  Click the **Delete** button next to the recipe you want to remove.


