# .Manage Virtual Server Power Options v7.1PrivateBeta

Virtual Server power options include the list of actions that you can run to change a VS power status. You can manage power options for a specific virtual server or power on/off multiple VSs that reside on the same compute resource. 

To manage power options for a specific virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click the label of the required virtual server. 
3.  Click the **Actions **button on the VS's screen and point to **Power** to see the following power actions on VSs (the exact list shown depends on the VS status): 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Reboot Virtual Server

1.  Click the** Reboot Virtual Server** button.
2.  Click the **OK** button in the pop-up box to confirm the reboot. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Reboot in Recovery

1.  Click the **Reboot in Recovery** button.
2.  Click the **Yes **button in the pop-up box to confirm the reboot in the recovery mode. 

For VSs with a password encryption *enabled*, the temporary login is "*root*" and password is "*recovery*".

For VSs with a password encryption *disabled*, the* "root" *password will be used to reboot the VS in recovery.

Windows virtual servers boot from the Linux-based recovery template in the recovery mode. You need to log in as admin via SSH or VNC console and mount a Windows system disk manually.

You cannot work with the "whole" disk (like `mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdb1`) while mounting and checking block devices inside the recovery image as Windows disk is split into partitions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Suspend/Unsuspend Virtual Server

1.  Click the **Suspend** button to stop a VS, change its status to suspended and disable all the major actions on VS, unless unsuspended.

    The virtual server is suspended immediately after clicking the **Suspend** button without an additional confirmation.

2.  Click the **Unsuspend **button to activate the suspended VS and enable all the major actions. 

For more information on actions available on a suspended VS, refer to the [Manage Suspended Virtual Server](.Manage_Suspended_Virtual_Server_v7.1PrivateBeta) section.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Shut Down Virtual Server 

You can shut down a specific virtual server or multiple VSs that reside on the same compute resource. For information on shutting down multiple VSs, refer to the [Power On/Off Multiple Virtual Servers](#id-.ManageVirtualServerPowerOptionsv7.1PrivateBeta-power-on-off-vs) section below. 

To shut down a particular virtual server:

1.  Click the **Shut Down Virtual Server** button.
2.  In the pop-up box, select either the **Gracefully shutdown** option to terminate the VS gracefully or the **Power OFF** option to terminate the VS forcefully.

    If you select the **Gracefully shutdown** option and the system fails to shut down the VS gracefully in the time period indicated in the *Timeout Before Shutting Down VSs (30-600 sec) *parameter at **Admin** &gt; **Settings** &gt; **Configuration **&gt;** [System](.Edit_System_Configuration_v7.1PrivateBeta)**, the VS will be shut down forcefully.

3.  Click the **Apply** button to shut down the VS. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Startup Virtual Server

You can start up a specific virtual server or multiple VSs that reside on the same compute resource. For information on starting multiple VSs, refer to the [Power On/Off Multiple Virtual Servers](#id-.ManageVirtualServerPowerOptionsv7.1PrivateBeta-power-on-off-vs) section below. 

To queue a start-up action for a VS that is currently powered-off, click the **Startup Virtual Server** button.

When you start up a VS, it might be implicitly cold migrated if the current compute resource does not have sufficient resources.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Startup on Recovery

To start a VS in the recovery mode:

1.  Click the **Startup on Recovery** button to start up a VS in the recovery mode. 
2.  In the pop-up box, click the **Yes** button to confirm the startup. 

For VSs with a password encryption *enabled*, the temporary login is "*root*" and password is "*recovery*".

For VSs with a password encryption *disabled*, the* "root" *password will be used to start up the VS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Boot from ISO

You can boot virtual servers from your own ISOs or the ISOs that are uploaded and made publicly available by other users. If you boot a VS from an ISO with the RAM requirement larger than the VS's RAM, the transaction will fail. Make sure that you have enabled the *Any power action on own virtual servers *and* Allow own virtual servers to boot from ISO *permissions for the user to have access to this feature.

To boot a VS from an ISO: 

1.  Click the **Boot from ISO** button. 
2.  Select the ISO image from which the VS will be booted. 
3.  Click the **Boot** button. 

As soon as you boot a VS from the installation ISO, OnApp may lose control of any components (backups, networks, disks). The [migration](.Manage_Virtual_Servers_v7.1PrivateBeta) option is not available for VSs booted from ISO. The only available actions will be to start and stop a VS. Be aware that all the contents of the disk may be also deleted.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Power On/Off Multiple Virtual Servers

To power on and power off virtual servers that are run on the same compute resource, follow the next steps: 

1.  In the *Settings *section, expand the **Compute Resources **menu and click a label of a compute zone where a target compute resource runs.
2.  Click a label of a compute resource. On the screen that appears, you will see a list of all virtual servers hosted on the compute resource.
3.  Choose virtual servers that you want to power on or power off by selecting the required checkboxes in the first column of the table. 

    -   To select all virtual servers residing on the compute resource, click the first checkbox. To cancel the selection of all virtual servers, click this checkbox again.

    -   If you select all virtual servers, only the powered-off VSs will be powered on, while the already powered-on VSs will be skipped and vice versa.

Depending on the current power status of the selected VSs, one of the following options will become available. 
**
Power On**

To power on the selected VSs: 

-   -   Click the **Power On **button.
    -   In the pop-up box, click the **YES **button to confirm your action.
    -   As a result, the multiple transactions will be scheduled to start up all the selected virtual servers one by one.

**Power Off **

To power off the selected VSs: 

-   -   Click the **Power Off **button.
    -   In the pop-up box, select one of the following methods: 
        -   *Gracefully shutdown* - to run a graceful shutdown of VSs
        -   *Power Off* - to run a forceful shutdown of VSs
    -   Click the **Submit **button to confirm your action.
    -   As a result, the multiple transactions will be scheduled to power off all the selected virtual servers one by one.

The bulk power on/off actions are available only to virtual servers that are run on KVM compute resources.


