# .Manage Compute Zone Recipes v7.1PrivateBeta

To manage compute zone recipes:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu and click the **Compute Zones** icon.
2.  Click the label of the zone you're interested in.
3.  On the compute zone details page click the **Tools** button, then select **Manage Recipes**.
4.  The screen that follows shows details of all the recipes in the cloud:

-   The right pane displays the list of compute zone events to which the recipes can be assigned to.
-   The left pane shows the list of all recipes in the cloud.

**Assign recipe**

Use drag and drop feature to assign a recipe to a desired compute zone event.
You can assign template recipes to the following events:

-   *Compute resource comes online* -* *run the recipe when the compute resource comes online

-   *Compute resource goes offline* - run the recipe when the compute resource goes offline

-   *KVM compute resource goes online* -* *run the recipe when the KVM compute resource goes online

-   *KVM compute resource goes offline* - run the recipe when the KVM compute resource goes offline

-   *vCenter* *compute resource goes online* -* *run the recipe when the [vCenter](https://docs.onapp.com/vcenter/latest) compute resource goes online
-   *vCenter* *compute resource goes offline* -* *run the recipe when the [vCenter](https://docs.onapp.com/vcenter/latest) compute resource goes offline
-   *Baremetal* *compute resource goes online* -* *run the recipe when the Baremetal compute resource goes online
-   *Baremetal* *compute resource goes offline* -* *run the recipe when the Baremetal compute resource goes offline

    The *X compute resource goes offline *recipe will be triggered when the statistics are not received from a compute resource for a certain period of time for some reason. If the compute resource is offline, the recipe will not run.

-   *VS provisioning -* run the recipe during the virtual server provisioning
-   *VS network rebuild* - run the recipe while rebuilding a network
-   *VS disk added* - run the recipe while adding a disk to the virtual server
-   *IP address allocated for VS* - run the recipe when adding an IP address to the VS network interface
-   *IP address revoked from VS *- run the recipe when removing an IP address from the VS network interface
-   *VS network interface added* - run the recipe while adding a network interface to the virtual server
-   *VS network interface removed - *run the recipe while deleting a network interface from the virtual server
-   *VS disk resized* - run the recipe while resizing a virtual server disk
-   *VS resize* - run the recipe while resizing the virtual server
-   *VS IP address add* - run the recipe while adding an IP address the virtual server
-   *VS IP address remove* - run the recipe while removing an IP address from the virtual server
-   VS start - run the recipe while starting the virtual server
-   VS reboot - run the recipe while rebooting the virtual server
-   VS hot migrate - run the recipe during the hot migration of the virtual server
-   VS hot full migrate - run the recipe during the hot migration of the virtual server with disk
-   VS failover - run the recipe during the failover process

**To use drag and drop:**

1.  Click the arrow button in front of the required event to unfold it.
2.  Click the arrow button in front of the required recipe group to unfold it. Select the required recipe in the left pane and hold it down with the left mouse button.
3.  Drag the recipe up to the right pane and release the mouse button to drop the recipe and add it to the required event.

**Remove recipe
**

1.  Click the arrow button in front of the required event to view the list of recipes assigned to it.
2.  Click the **Delete** button next to the recipe you want to remove.


