# .Manage Compute Resources v7.1PrivateBeta

Compute resources are based on KVM virtualization and run on bare metal with CentOS Linux as the management operating system or VMware ESXi servers. Compute resources are used to provide hardware resources for virtual servers, ensuring highly-efficient use of available hardware and complete isolation of virtual server processes. Compute resources can be organized into compute zones, which make it easy to offer tiered service levels and create private clouds for specific users. Each virtual server in the cloud is hosted on a specific physical compute resource server, from which it receives CPU, RAM, and storage capacity from the data stores attached to that compute resource. In this document, you can find information on how to manage compute resources. 

For more information on how to manage a specific compute resource, refer to the [Compute Resources](.Compute_Resources_v7.1PrivateBeta) section.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## View Compute Resource Settings

Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
Click the **Compute Resources** icon.
On the screen that appears, you will see the list of all compute resources in the cloud along with their details:
-   *Status - *whether the compute resource is online, offline, in maintenance mode, or locked (means that some of the services are yet to be started; this status appears during hot migration or when starting a compute resource)
-   *Label* - the name of the compute resource
-   *IP Address* - the IP address of the compute resource
-   *Enabled* - whether the compute resource is enabled or disabled. If disabled, you cannot create the virtual servers on it, or migrate the VSs to this compute resource. 
-   *Compute Zone* - the compute zone to which the compute resource is assigned
-   *Operating System* - the operating system type of the virtual servers that can live on this compute resource
-   CPU Cores - number of CPU cores
-   RAM - total/free RAM (based on the compute resource type). The maximum RAM value for the selected Compute Resource has to be the same as for Cluster free RAM in vCenter.
-   VS - the number of VSs associated with the compute resource
-   *Features* - , where the first icon shows the compute resource's failover status, the second one - statistics collection, the third one - CloudBoot status, and the fourth one - backup status (for CloudBoot compute resources only; it shows whether CloudBoot compute resource is used as a backup server)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## View Compute Resources

The Control Panel provides a quick way to see a summary of compute resources available in your cloud. On the **Admin** tab, click **All Compute Resources** to see a list of all compute resources and the following details:

-   *Status*
-   *Label*
-   *IP Address*
-   *Type*
-   *Zone*
-   *Location Group*
-   *Operating System*
-   *Failover*
-   *VS* (the number of deployed virtual servers) 
-   *CPU*
    -   *Cores*
    -   *Used*
    -   *Available*
    -   *MHZ*
-   *RAM *(based on the compute resource type)
    -   *Total *
    -   *Free *

If you are viewing the compute resources list on a narrow screen, you can customize the way the table is displayed by clicking the actions icon at the top of the table. In the drop-down list that appears, select the columns you want to see and click **Apply**. The narrower your screen is, the more deselected columns will be hidden from the table. If your screen is too narrow to fit all the columns you have selected, a scrollbar will appear at the bottom of the compute resources list. You can always change the selection of columns. Note that by default the *VS*, *Used* and *MHz* columns are not visible in the table on narrow screens.

The selection of columns is currently set for one browser. If you select some columns in one browser and open this page in another browser, the column selection will be the default one for that other browser.

To sort information by column in ascending or descending order, mouse over the particular column header and click a triangle icon.

To view a particular compute resource details, click the label of a required compute resource. On the screen that appears, you'll see compute resource details (RAM usage/RAM available, IP Address, CPU MHZ/CPU cores, etc.) and **Activity log** of this compute resource. In the *Target *column, you can see an identification number and the name of a compute resource, to which the appropriate action was applied. To view details of a transaction from the activity log, click its *Ref* number.

To edit or delete a compute resource, click the **Actions** button next to the compute resource, then select the required action.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## View Compute Resource Details

To view compute resource hardware info:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Compute Resources** icon.
3.  On the screen that appears, you will see the list of all compute resources in the cloud.
4.  Click the **Actions** button next to the compute resource and then select **Hardware Info**. Also, you can click the label of a specific compute resource, then click the **Actions** button, point to **Resource Options**, and select **Hardware Info**.

    You can also view the compute resource details after clicking in the **Admin** tab &gt; a label of a compute zone where a target compute resource runs &gt; a label of a compute resource.

5.  You will see the following details:
    -   **Summary Info
        **This section contains basic information about the compute resource:**
        **
        -   *Current Uptime *- the time the compute resource has been working and available, the number of its users, and the average load
        -   *Total CPU* - the total amount of CPU (number of cores/frequency in MHz) allocated to the compute resource
        -   *Memory *- the total amount of memory (GB) allocated to a compute resource
        -   *Type -* the type of the compute resource, for example, KVM
        -   *OS* - the operating system of the compute resource
        -   *Manufacturer/Model -* the manufacturer and model of the motherboard
        -   *BIOS/Serial Number *- the system BIOS, its serial number, and release date

    -   **CPU**
        This section shows CPU manufacturer logo and information about CPU slots. Click the **CPU Details **button to get detailed information about CPU from the Intel ARK database if available.
    -   **RAM**
        This section includes information about memory slots (double data rate, memory clock in MHz, size).
    -   **HD**
        This section shows information about the manufacturer and model of a hard disk drive and the hard disk drive capacity in GB.
    -   **Network**
        This section contains information about network cards. Click the** Info** button next to the specific network to get detailed information from the Intel ARK Database if available.

6.  If hardware information is empty or incomplete, click the** Update Hardware Info **button in the right upper corner.
7.  Click the **Edit Custom Fields** button to add/edit/delete custom fields for the hardware info. For more information on how to manage custom fields, refer to the Hardware Info page. 

The list of available actions for the virtual server depends on the VS power status. For more information, refer to the [Virtual Server Power Options](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Power_Options_v7.1PrivateBeta) guide.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit Compute Resource Details

You can edit compute resource details at the compute resource details page or through your Control Panel &gt; Admin &gt;** Settings **&gt;** Compute Resources**.

OR

On the **Admin** tab, you can click a label of a compute zone where a target compute resource runs.

1.  Click the label of the compute resource.
2.  Click the **Actions **button, point to **Resource** **Options**, and select **Edit Compute Resource**.

The editing functionality is the same whichever method you choose.

On the screen that follows, change details as required:

-   *Label* - the name of the compute resource
-   *Operating System Type - *choose an operating system type (Any OS, Windows only, or Non-Windows)

    Note that the compute resource won't be edited if the VSs with the inappropriate operating system is present on it. Thus, it won’t be possible to set Windows only type for a compute resource if there are any Linux or FreeBSD VSs living on it. Likewise, it won't be possible to set the Non-Windows type for a compute resource, if there are Windows-based VSs living on it.

1.  -   *Backup IP address* - the provisioning network IP address

2.  The provisioning network IP address is not obligatory but recommended as an additional network connection for intensive data transfer by migrations and backups. If not specified, the management network connection will be loaded by that data.

    -   *CPU Units* - shows the speed of the CPU. Please note that it is just a number that is relative to another number. For example, if one compute resource is two times more powerful than another, the CPU units could be 1000 and 500, respectively. The number of CPU Units is an abstract figure that you set by yourself to compare the compute resource's capacity as the more capacity the compute resource has, the more CPU units should be assigned to this compute resource. 

        Mind that setting a different amount of CPU units will affect your cloud configuration. It will not be possible to create [Instance Package](.Instance_Packages_v7.1PrivateBeta) VSs in the compute zone to which you assign this compute resource.

        Note that the compute resource won't be edited if the VSs with the inappropriate operating system is present on it. Thus, it won’t be possible to set Windows only type for a compute resource if there are any Linux or FreeBSD VSs living on it. Likewise, it won't be possible to set the Non-Windows type for a compute resource, if there are Windows-based VSs living on it.

    -   *Enabled* - enable or disable the ability to install/boot virtual servers on this compute resource
    -   *Collect stats - *enable or disable the ability to collect statistics for this compute resource

        -   When you assign the compute resource to the new compute zone without any compute resources, the disable failover zone’s parameter automatically takes the value of the compute resource.

        -   When all compute resources within the zone have the same value, the compute zone’s disable failover status will be the same, otherwise, the compute resources zone’s failover status will be set to disabled.

        -   When you change the compute zone’s disable failover value, this change will be applied to all compute resources within this zone.

    -   *Disable Failover* - enable or disable the VS migration to another compute resource if this compute resource is marked as offline by the Control Panel server

        -   If you want to enable/disable failover for all compute resources within the compute zone, refer to [Manage Failover](.Manage_Failover_v7.1PrivateBeta) section of this guide.
        -   If you use automatic failover with write-back caching you may lose some data in the event of a failover.

    -   *Failover recipe - *select a recipe to run on compute resource before the failover process
    -   *Power Cycle Command* - arbitrary command string to be executed by IPMI from the CP server. If the command is entered, a new Power Cycle compute resource option, which will execute the entered command, will appear at Admin &gt; Settings &gt; Compute Resources &gt; label of a compute resource &gt; Actions &gt; Resource Options

        Currently, a command or commands should be written in one line separated by a semicolon. If the command is written in two lines you will receive a "fail" response, although the transaction will be performed. The power cycle command is executed on Control Panel under the *onapp *user and it can be any bash script.

Click the **Save **button to save your changes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Power On/Off Virtual Servers

At the compute resource details page, you can power on and power off virtual servers that are run on this compute resource. To power on/off virtual servers, follow the next steps: 

1.  On the **Admin** tab, click a label of a compute zone where a target compute resource runs.
2.  Click a label of a compute resource. On the screen that appears, you will see a list of all virtual servers hosted on the compute resource.
3.  Choose virtual servers that you want to power on or power off by selecting the required checkboxes in the first column of the table. 

    -   To select all virtual servers residing on the compute resource, click the first checkbox. To cancel the selection of all virtual servers, click this checkbox again.

    -   If you select all virtual servers, only the powered-off VSs will be powered on, while the already powered-on VSs will be skipped and vice versa.

    Depending on the current power status of the selected VSs, one of the following options become available. 

**Power On**

To power on the selected VSs: 

-   -   Click the **Power On **button.
    -   In the pop-up box, click the **YES **button to confirm your action.

**Power Off **

We show usage for any compute resource cores that are being managed within the cloud. To ensure you are not charged for cores if you are taking a compute resource offline, please ensure to [delete](#id-.ManageComputeResourcesv7.1PrivateBeta-delete)it.

To power off the selected VSs: 

-   -   Click the **Power Off **button.
    -   In the pop-up box, select one of the following methods: 
        -   *Gracefully shutdown* - to run a graceful shutdown of VSs
        -   *Power Off* - to run a forceful shutdown of VSs
    -   Click the **Submit **button to confirm your action.

-   The bulk power on/off actions are available only to virtual servers that are run on KVM and Xen compute resources.
-   For more information on the VS Power Options, refer to the linked guide.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Migrate Virtual Servers 

You can migrate multiple virtual servers at once from one compute resource to another compute resource of the same type (KVM to KVM or Xen to Xen). The mass migration is available within compute resources that belong to the same compute zone. To migrate virtual servers, follow the next steps: 

1.  On the **Admin** tab, click a label of a compute zone where a target compute resource runs.
2.  Click a label of a compute resource. On the screen that appears, you will see a list of all virtual servers hosted on the compute resource.
3.  Select checkboxes next to the virtual servers that you want to migrate and click the **Migrate** button. 

    To select all virtual servers residing on the compute resource, click the first checkbox. To cancel the selection of all virtual servers, click this checkbox again.

4.  In the pop-up box, select the following options:
    -   *Target compute resource* - select a destination compute resource to migrate the virtual servers to
    -   *Cold-migrate when hot-migration fails* - select the checkbox if you want to apply cold migration in case of the hot migration failure

        If some of the selected virtual servers have disks that run as a local storage on this compute resource, these virtual servers could not be migrated. After the migration, these virtual servers remain on the previous compute resource, while other VSs are migrated to the destination compute resource.

5.  When you are finished, click the **Submit** button. 

After the migration, the power status of your virtual servers remains the same as before the migration. If you migrate virtual servers that are running, the whole process is almost unnoticeable.

To check if your Windows template supports hot migration, see the [Windows templates list](http://templates.repo.onapp.com/Windows_templates.html).

Note that migration of virtual servers to a compute resource without a specific Operating System Type has the following implications:

-   -   You won't be able to set the Windows only type for a compute resource if there are any Linux or FreeBSD virtual servers on it.
    -   You won't be able to set the non-Windows type for a compute resource if there are Windows-based virtual servers on it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit Integrated Storage Settings

Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu and click the **Compute Resources** icon.
On the page that appears, you will see the list of compute resources available in your cloud. Click the **Actions** button next to the label of a compute resource and select the **Integrated Storage Settings** option.
Click the **Edit** button.
On the screen that loads, edit the following parameters:
-   *Number of cache mirrors* - specify the number of cache mirrors for the compute resource
-   *Number of cache stripes* - specify the number of cache stripes for the compute resource

<!-- -->

-   *Controller RAM* - specify the controller RAM value. You may calculate the amount of memory needed for a storage controller as DB size (128 MB by default) + 10 MB x vDisk parts at the controller.
-   *Drives per controller* - specify the number of disks per controller virtual server. You can specify from 1 to 4 disks. By default, the controller virtual server is created per 4 disk drives.
-   *Controller DB size* - select the controller DB size value (minimum 128 MB, maximum 256 MB)

<!-- -->

-   *SAN bonding mode* - choose bonding mode type from the drop-down menu
-   *MTU* - specify the maximum transportation unit size. You can set the frame size from 1500 to 9000 bytes
-   *VLAN id* - specify the ID of a VLAN number
-   Cache settings:
-   Controller settings:

Click the **Save** button to save changes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Reboot Compute Resource

You can reboot a compute resource and set a logic to apply to virtual servers during the reboot. To reboot a compute resource:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Admin &gt; Compute Resources menu.
2.  Click a label of the compute resource that you want to reboot.
3.  On the compute resource details page, click the Actions button, point to Resource Options, and select Reboot Compute Resource.
4.  In the pop-up box, you can select the following options:
    -   **Do not migrate powered off VSs 
        **Select this checkbox to prevent the migration of powered off virtual servers to another compute resource while the source compute resource is being rebooted. 

    -   **Start running virtual servers after reboot? 
        **Select this checkbox to initiate the [failover](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.Failover+Configuration+v6.5) process to start running virtual servers after the reboot. 

        The failover process will be initiated despite the **Disable Failover** configuration for [compute resource](.Manage_Compute_Resources_v7.1PrivateBeta) or [compute zone](.Manage_Compute_Zones_v7.1PrivateBeta).

    -   Stop all virtual servers that cannot be migrated to another compute resource? Select this checkbox to power off virtual servers that cannot be migrated. When a compute resource is scheduled for the reboot, OnApp first attempts to hot migrate all virtual servers on a compute resource. If hot migration is not possible for a VS, OnApp attempts to cold migrate the VS. If you select this checkbox and cold migration fails, the VS is stopped so that the reboot may continue. If you don't select this checkbox, OnApp first attempts to hot and then cold migrate all VSs hosted on the compute resource but stops the reboot process if any VS cannot be migrated.

    -   Are you sure you want to reboot this compute resource? Select this checkbox to confirm that you want to reboot the compute resource.

5.  When you are certain that you want to proceed with the reboot, click the Reboot button.

The reboot option is not available for VMware compute resources.

If your backups disappear after rebooting the CloudBoot compute resource with LVM storage which is used as a backup server, add mount command to CloudBoot backup server custom config after the reboot. This is a known issue which will be fixed in the future release.
To fix your custom config settings, use one of the following options provided in the examples below (you will have to specify your own device names):

1.  If you have a separate partition for backups and templates (/dev/sda1 and /dev/sda2)

    mkdir-p /onapp/backups

    mkdir-p /onapp/template

    s mount /dev/sda1 /onapp/backups

    mount /dev/sda2 /onapp/templates

2.  If you current array is detected as /dev/sda1 and currently everything is located in /onappwithin templates and backup directories within:

    mkdir-p /onapp

    mount /dev/sda1 /onapp

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Delete Compute Resource

Compute resources can be removed from your cloud if required. A Compute resource cannot be removed until all of the virtual servers assigned to it are migrated to another compute resource. 
To remove a compute resource:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Compute resources **icon.
3.  Click the **Actions** button next to the compute resource you want to delete, then click **Delete.**


