# .My Template Groups v7.1PrivateBeta

My Template Groups allow you to create own license groups for your own personal/custom templates. The groups cannot be shared amongst the users. Also, for Windows-based templates, My Template Groups provide the possibility to use your own licensing type regardless of your bucket. 

For your convenience, My Template Groups have hierarchical (tree) structure:

-   Template group – e.g., OS
-   Child group
-   Templates

You may assign templates directly to the group, or create a child group(s) and assign templates there.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Add Template Group

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Cloud &gt; Templates &gt; My Template Groups menu.
2.  On the following page, click upper right or the **Create New My Template Group** button lower right.
3.  On the page that appears, fill in the following:

-   -   Label - specify the name of your group
    -   If you are planning to use this group for Windows templates, specify the Windows Licensing type: MAK, KMS, or Own (user license)

        This licensing type will apply to all templates directly in the group and in the child groups.

<!-- -->

-   -   For KMS licensing, set the following parameters:
        -   *Server Label* – the name of the KMS server
        -   *KMS Server Host* – the hostname of the licensing server
        -   *KMS Server Port* – the port used to connect to the licensing server

       4. Click **Save**.

On the page that appears, you can add a template or a child to the group, edit the group, or delete it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Add Child Group

To add a child group to the group:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Cloud &gt; Templates &gt; My Template Groups menu.
2.  Click next to the required group and select **Add Child**.
3.  In the screen that appears, fill in: 
    -   *Label* – the name of the child group
    -   If you are planning to use this group for Windows templates, specify the Windows Licensing type: MAK, KMS, or Own (user license)

        This licensing type will apply to all templates in the child group. Providing you have indicated the licensing type for the parent group - both types will apply

    -   For KMS licensing, set the following parameters:
        -   *Server Label* – the name of the KMS server
        -   *KMS Server Host* – the hostname of the licensing server
        -   *KMS Server Port* – the port used to connect to the licensing server

        Providing the KMS licensing was selected for the parent group, both KMS servers will be available for selection while creating a virtual server based on the templates in the child group.

4.  Click Save.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Assign Template to Template Group / Child Group

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Cloud &gt; Templates &gt; My Template Groups menu.
2.  Click  next to the required group's label, then select Add Template, or click on the group's label to expand it, then click  next to the required child group's label.
3.  Choose the template from the drop-down list at the Add a template section.

    Only your custom templates will be available for selection.

4.  Click Save.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Remove Template from Template Group

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Cloud &gt; Templates &gt; My Template Groups menu.
2.  Click the template group's label or click the name of the template group from which you wish to remove a template.
3.  Сlick next to the template you want to remove.
4.  Confirm the deletion.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit or Delete Template Group

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Cloud &gt; Templates &gt; My Template Groups menu.
2.  On the page that follows, you'll see the list of all template groups created within your cloud:

-   -   Click the group's label to see the child groups or the list of templates assigned to this group; click the child group label to see the list of templates assigned to the child group.
    -   Click next to a group or a child group to edit its name and the type of Windows licensing; click Save button upon making the necessary changes.
    -   Click  to delete a group or a child group. The templates which were assigned to this group/child group will become your ungrouped templates.


