# .OnApp Database Backup v7.1PrivateBeta

OnApp provides the ready-to-use tool for database backing up - */onapp/onapp-cp-install/onapp-database-dump.sh*. This tool is a part of *onapp-cp-install* package, so it is mandatory for every Control Panel. It is configured as a cron job to dump the OnApp database regularly. Also, this tool is used by the CP installer (*onapp-cp-install.sh*) to dump the OnApp database before any upgrade.

To set dumping properties, the tool reads the following configuration files:

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>File</th>
<th>Usage</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>/onapp/interface/config/database.yml</code></td>
<td><p>specifies MySQL/MariaDB connection properties, like: <code>database, host, password, port, username</code>.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><code>/onapp/interface/config/on_app.yml </code></td>
<td>specifies whether SSH File Transfer Server is used: <code>use_ssh_file_transfer, ssh_file_transfer_server, ssh_file_transfer_user, ssh_file_transfer_options, backups_path</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><code>/onapp/onapp-cp.conf</code></td>
<td><p>specifies:</p>
<ul>
<li>extra configuration ( e.g. custom dump server)and connection option to it ( e.g. <code>DB_DUMP_SERVER, DB_DUMP_USER, DB_DUMP_SERVER_ROOT, DB_DUMP_SERVER_SSH_OPT)</code> </li>
</ul>
<br />

<ul>
<li>files rotating option (<code>KEEP_DUMPS)</code></li>
</ul>
<br />

<ul>
<li>crontab configuration (<code>DB_DUMP_CRON)</code></li>
</ul>
<br />

<ul>
<li>the path on CP for temporary dumps, accordingly to<em> </em><code>/onapp/interface (ONAPP_DB_DUMP_ROOT)</code></li>
</ul>
<p><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### **When to run?**

The tool is configured as cron job to run hourly. This could be customized in `DB_DUMP_CRON` variable (`/onapp/onapp-cp.conf`):

-   The default value is "*40 \* \* \* \* "*
-   Set any other crontab-styled value or leave it blank to disable the job. 
-   Pass the "*-D"* option to the CP installer (`onapp-cp-install-sh`). This will:
     disable database dumping during CP install/upgrade;
     make sure that dumping is disabled in the cron;
     make sure no cron job is running during install/upgrade.

### **How many copies to store?**

The number of stored dumps is configured by `KEEP_DUMPS` variable. The default value is "*168"* (store 24 dumps per day, and keep for a week). 

The variable value should be set before CP installer runs.

### **Where to store dumps?**

The dumps are temporarily stored on the Control Panel server in the `/onapp/interface/$ONAPP_DB_DUMP_ROOT `directory. The directory `/onapp/interface/db/dump `is set by default. The `ONAPP_DB_DUMP_ROOT `variable value could be changed in the `/onapp/onapp-cp.conf` file.
It is possible to move dumps into remote box automatically and to rotate there. The remote box could be:

-   **SSH File Transfer Server** if enabled in the OnApp configuration. The backups will be moved into server's `backups_path` directory and rotated there. The dumps are removed from the CP box if transfer to remote box is successful.

-   Any** custom box**. It could be configured via `DB_DUMP_SERVER` in the `/onapp/onapp-cp.conf.` The backups will be moved into server's *DB\_DUMP\_SERVER\_ROOT* directory and rotated there. The dumps are removed from the CP box if transfer to a remote box is successful. 

The **custom box** should be accessible via ssh from the CP box using `onapp` user without specifying the password.

To back up the entire OnApp database, use the Linux `mysqldump` command:

``` java
#mysqldump -p onapp > onapp.sql
```

To backup a standalone table, use the following syntax replacing `table_name` with the name of the table to be backed up:

``` java
#mysqldump -p onapp table_name > onapp.table_name.sql
```

To find the required MySQL password, use the following command:

``` java
#cat /onapp/interface/config/database.yml | grep pass
```


