# .Resolvers Settings v7.1PrivateBeta

OnApp Resolvers are names given to computers located with institutional networks and are used to meet user's request of a domain name. Resolvers work like DNS servers – they translate a hostname to an IP address, thus, linking your computer and the Internet's DNS infrastructure. 

You should specify at least 2 resolvers for each network in OnApp. When a new VS is provisioned, these resolvers are injected into the resolver configuration automatically.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Create Resolver

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt;** Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Resolvers **icon.
3.  On the screen that appears, click the **Create Resolver** button.
4.  Specify resolver details:
    -   *Address *- the resolver IP address
    -   *Network *- the ID of the network to which this resolver should belong

5.  Click **Create Resolver**.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit Resolver

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings* ***menu.
2.  Click the **Resolvers **icon.
3.  Click the **Actions** icon next to the resolver you want to change, then click **Edit** to change the resolver's address and network.
4.  Click** Save Resolvers**.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Delete Resolver

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  Click the **Resolvers** icon.
3.  Click the **Actions **button next to the resolver you want to remove, then click **Delete**. 
4.  Confirm the deletion.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


