# .Schedules Settings v7.1PrivateBeta

The schedules settings screen provides an overview of all virtual servers' backup schedules in the cloud. This section provides the information on how you can create, view, edit, and delete backup schedules. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Create Schedules

Depending on the backup type set in your cloud settings, schedules are created either per virtual server or per disk:

-   If you are using normal backups, the schedules are created per disk. 
-   If you are using incremental backups, the schedules are created per virtual server.

When you create a schedule, you can set the time when the backup will be taken. Each backup erases the previous backup and a new backup is not scheduled if another auto-backup from the same schedule is pending or running. When a schedule is no longer needed, we recommend deleting it so that the task will no longer run.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## View Schedules

To view the list of all schedules:

1.  Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings **menu.
2.  Click the **Schedules **icon to see a list of all schedules on the system along with their details:
    -   *Date* - the time when the schedule was created

    -   *Target* - the server or disk for which the schedule was created (depending on the [backup type](https://docs.onapp.com/adminguide/latest/cloud-provisioning/appliances/virtual-servers/manage-virtual-server-backups#id-.ManageVirtualServerBackupsv7.0-typesTypesofBackups))

    -   *Action* - the scheduled action

    -   *Period -* how frequently the backup will occur according to a period type set in the next step. 

        For example, if you set “2” as a period and “days” as a period type, the backup will take place at the same time every two days. By default, in this filed is set 1.

    -   *Period* *type* - the backup period: days, weeks, months, or years

    -   *Rotation period -* the number of backups, after which the first backup will be deleted. 

        By default, in this filed is set 1, so it means that the old one backup is deleted after a new backup occurs. If you set 2 in this filed, it means that the first backup will be deleted next but one. If you set 4, three most recent backups and the new one will be stored, while the initial one will be deleted.

    -   *Next Start -* the date and the hour of the next backup

    -   *User - the* user who created the backup schedule

    -   *Status -* schedule status

3.  To view schedules of a particular server, see:
4.  -   [View Virtual Server Backup Schedules](.Manage_Virtual_Server_Backup_Schedules_v7.1PrivateBeta)
    -   [ISO Virtulas Server Backup Schedules](.ISO_Virtual_Server_Backup_Schedules_v7.1PrivateBeta)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit Schedules

To edit a schedule:

1.  Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings **menu.
2.  Click the **Schedules **icon to see a list of all schedules on the system.
3.  Click the** Edit** icon next to a schedule to change its details:
    -   *Period - *how frequently the backup will take place according to a period type. For example, the period of 2 and the period type of days will take a backup every two days.
    -   *Period* *type* - the backup period: days, weeks, months, or years
    -   *Rotation period -* the* *number of backups after which the first backup will be deleted. This parameter is for incremental backup schedules only.

    -   *Start Time - *the time when the backup will be taken
    -   *Enabled* - move the slider to enable or disable the schedule

        For a schedule with the *Failed* status, you can move the **Enabled** slider to the right to run the shedule once again.

4.  Click the **Save** button to save your changes.

You can also configure the re-run period for auto-backup in case of auto-backup transaction failure. By default, it is set to 3 hours, but you may change the time value in the info\_hub.yaml configuration file.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Delete Schedules

To delete a schedule:

1.  Go to your **Control Panel** &gt; **Admin** &gt;  **Settings **menu.
2.  Click the **Schedules **icon to see a list of all schedules on the system.
3.  Click the **Actions **icon next to the schedule you want to remove, then choose **Delete**.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


