# .Set Default CPU Quota v7.1PrivateBeta

CPU quota is a percentage value limiting maximum VS CPU load on a compute resource. CPU quota functionality allows limiting CPU usage for the particular virtual server in order to avoid abuse usage, which is affecting all virtual servers on the KVM compute resource. 

-   This option is available for the users under administrator's role. Make sure you have enabled Manage CPU quota permission first.
-   This feature is available only for KVM compute resources.
-   Before you enable CPU quota, its value is set to unlimited for all the VSs on this compute resource.

You can set the default value of CPU quota on the compute resource level and edit the custom value on the virtual server level.

## Set CPU Quota for Compute Resource

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Admin** &gt; **Settings** menu.
2.  and click the **Compute Resources** icon.
3.  Click the label of the compute resource you are interested in.
4.  On the screen that appears, click the **Actions** button, point to **Resource Options**, and select **Set default CPU Quota**.
5.  Move the **CPU Quota enabled** slider to the right to enable CPU quota and set the default value.
6.  Set CPU quota. The maximum value is 99%. Also, you can select the ∞ unlimited checkbox to set an unlimited amount of CPU quota.  

7.  Click the **Save** button.

-   If default CPU quota value is changed or CPU quota is enabled, it does not affect running virtual servers until they are restarted.
-   If default CPU quota is disabled, it is set unlimited for all running virtual servers.


