# .SSL Certificates v7.1PrivateBeta

OnApp implements SSL certificates management, so that customers can import their SSL certificates to the cloud via OnApp Control Panel.

Below you can find instructions on how to add SSL certificates to OnApp Control Panel.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Prerequisites

Ensure that the following conditions are fulfilled before uploading SSL certificate to OnApp Control Panel:

-   *Manage SSL certificate *permission is on. For more information, refer to the [OnApp Permissions](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/TEST2/.OnApp+Permissions+v7.0) section of this guide.
-   SSL certificate consists of three files with the following names: *ca.crt, ca.key*, and *bundle.crt*. 
-   SSL certificate is not protected by password.

Please note that SSL certificates are supported in PEM format only.

## View SSL Certificates

------------------------------------------------------------------------

To view the list of SSL certificates:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Admin &gt; Settings menu.
2.  Click the SSL Certificate icon.
3.  The page that loads, shows all available SSL certificates with their details:

-   -   Name - the label of SSL certificate
    -   Path - the route to SSL certificate

## Add SSL Certificate

------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can either upload SSL certificate or set up a self-signed one (default self-signed certificate that comes with OnApp CP installation).

To upload SSL certificate:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Admin &gt; Settings menu.
2.  Click the SSL Certificate icon.
3.  Click the Upload button.
4.  Click Choose File to select the required SSL certificate from your file system.
5.  Click Submit.

To set up a self-signed SSL certificate:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Admin &gt; Settings menu.
2.  Click the SSL Certificate icon.
3.  Click the Setup Self-Signed SSL button. This action will set up default self-signed certificates that come with OnApp CP installation. Setting up certificates will restart the CP web server and make it unavailable for a few seconds.
4.  In the dialog, move the Confirm setup self-signed SSL slider to the right to confirm your action.
5.  Click Submit.


