# .Usage Trends v7.1PrivateBeta

The charts at the User Trends page show the quick overview of your cloud infrastructure. Depending on the date range that you select, the charts will show hourly or daily statistics. For the 24 hours or less time period, the hourly statistics will be displayed. Otherwise, the charts will represent daily statistics.

Ensure that the See Global Statistic permission is on before viewing usage trends statistics. For more information about permissions refer to the [OnApp Permissions](.OnApp_Permissions_v7.1PrivateBeta) section of this guide.

Below you can find how the details on usage trends statistics and its measurement.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## View Usage Trends

To view Usage Trends of your cloud:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Metrics** &gt; **User Trends**.
2.  Click the tab you are interested in (CPU usage, Memory usage, Disk usage, IOPS, Bandwidth, Virtual/baremetal/smart servers).
3.  The chart with the statistics appears.

**Period filter**

By default, statistics are generated for the last three days. To specify another period, set the **Start** and **End** time and click the **Apply** button. Tick the **Show in my Timezone** box to show statistics according to your profile's time zone settings. You can zoom in a chart to view more detailed graphs.

**Filtering by compute zone**

It is possible to see the infrastructure statistics per compute zone as well as combination of the different zones. Statistics are shown in a form of area charts with highlighted color per each compute zone. On the side where the amount for each zone is shown, you can remove compute zones you do not wish to see by clicking on it. Selected compute zone will be grayed out and excluded from the graph. Also, the top 20 VSs are shown according to compute zone selection.

**Top 20 VSs**

Under the graphs you can find the list of  top 20 VSs, which are shown for the compute zones selected in the filter, or for the whole cloud if nothing is filtered. Each VS is marked by color in accordance with compute zone color on the chart. Top 20 servers ordered by resource usage for the selected period are displayed together with their details:

Details
CPU (cores)
Memory (MB)
Disk (GB)
IOPS (items)
Bandwidth (KB)
Virtual Servers
OS
VS operating system 
Label
the name of the server
Disk Size
disk size allocated to VS
RAM
  the RAM size available to VS
Compute resource
** compute resource on which VS is built
User
username of the VS owner
Current Usage
the used amount of CPU cores for the last hour
the used amount of Memory for the last hour
the used amount of Disk for the last hour
Usage
average for the selected period is displayed. If the VS has not been existing for the whole period, the average for the actual (existing) period is displayed.
Current Data
the latest instant usage data that we have
Data
the total for the whole period is displayed
Created at
server creation time

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Usage Trends Statistics Measurement

Below you can find what statistics is shown depending on the chosen time period.

Chart

Hourly

Daily

CPU

shows the total amount of cores per hour (virtual)

shows the maximum amount of cores per day for the set time period (virtual)

Memory

shows the total amount of RAM per hour for all VSs in the cloud

shows the max amount of RAM per day for the set time period for all VSs in the cloud

Storage

shows the total of all disks’ capacities per hour for all VSs in the cloud

shows the maximum of all disks’ capacities per day for the set time period for all VSs in the cloud

IOPS

shows the total of data read/written for the entire cloud per hour

shows the total of data read/written for each day for the entire cloud for the time period set

IOPS is measured in amount, indicated by metric prefix. For example, 8M=8 millions, 2G=2 billions etc.

Baremetal servers

shows the total amount of baremetal servers per hour

shows the amount of baremetal servers in the cloud for each day for the time period set

Smart Servers

shows the total amount of smart servers in the cloud per hour

shows the amount of smart servers in the cloud for each day for the time period set

VSs

shows the amount of VSs per hour

shows the amount of VSs per day for the time period set

Bandwidth

shows the total bytes sent/received for the entire cloud per hour

shows the total bytes sent/received for each day for the entire cloud for the time period set

------------------------------------------------------------------------


