# .Virtual Server Transactions and Logs v7.1PrivateBeta

The system records a detailed log of all the transactions happening to your virtual servers. The list of transactions logged by the system includes:

-   *Provision virtual server*
-   *Startup virtual server *
-   *Stop virtual server*
-   *Resize virtual server without reboot*
-   *Configure Operating System*
-   *Build disk*
-   *Resize disk*
-   *Format disk*
-   *Destroy disk*
-   *Take backup*
-   *Convert backup*
-   *Restore backup*
-   *Destroy backups*
-   *Destroy virtual server*
-   *Destroy template*
-   *Download template*
-   *Update firewall*

To view transactions for a virtual server:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu.
2.  Click the label of the virtual server you're interested in.
3.  The details screen for that virtual server shows recent transactions in the **Activity Log** section. 

To cancel all pending tasks, click the** Cancel All Pending Tasks for this virtual server** button.

To cancel the TakeBackup transaction which is running longer and exceeding the time set for a zombie transaction:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; Cloud &gt; Virtual Servers menu.
2.  Click the label of the required virtual server.
3.  On the following page, in the Activity Log section, hover over the icon of the transaction and then click that appears on the icon of this transaction.

    Please note that this option becomes available if the transaction has been running for the period of time specified in the Zombie transaction time parameter, which can be found at your Control Panel &gt; Admin &gt; Settings &gt; Configuration icon.

4.  In the dialog box, click Proceed.

    The rollback is executed starting from the command which has been canceled. 

You can also view the details of a particular log item by clicking its Ref number. The page that loads shows the log output and the following details:

-   *date* -  time in the \[YYYY\]\[MM\]\[DD\]T\[hh\]\[mm\]\[ss\]Z format
-   *action* - the action name
-   *status* - the action status (*Complete*, *Warn*, *Pending*, or *Failed*)
-   *ref* - the log item's Ref number
-   *target* - the action target
-   *started at* - the time when the action was started
-   *completed at* - the time when the action was completed
-   *template* - template of the server the action refers to
-   *compute resource* - the label of compute resource
-   *initiator* -  the user who initiated the action

If you want to see only the detailed output, you can hide log info with the arrow button in the upper right corner.


