# .Virtual Server Integrated Console v7.1PrivateBeta

OnApp provides an integrated VNC console that gives users direct access to their virtual servers through the Control Panel UI. The [noVNC](https://novnc.com/info.html) console is provided for virtual servers that are built on KVM CentOS 7 based on WebSockets. Users with the Administrator role can access all virtual server consoles for support and troubleshooting purposes. The console connects a user browser to a VNC port or VNC WebSocket port available via a compute resource for the guest console. 

There are two ways to access the virtual server VNC console via the Control Panel:

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu. 
2.  Click the label of the destination virtual server.
3.  Click the **Console** tab.

      OR

1.  Go to your Control Panel &gt; **Cloud** &gt; **Virtual Servers** menu. 
2.  Click the Actions button next to the destination virtual server and select Console.

For the HTML5 console, click the **Re-connect** button if the connection is lost. The re-connection to the console runs as follows: 

-   If the console runs as expected, clicking the **Re-connect** button causes disconnection and the console is re-connected automatically after 1.5 seconds.
-   If the console gets stuck, clicking the **Re-connect** button runs your request once again and re-connects the console without reloading.
-   If the console gets disconnected with a status code and an error message, the console is re-connected automatically after 1.5 seconds.

To use the Java console instead of HTML5, go to **Admin** &gt; **Settings **&gt; **Configuration** and edit settings on the **System** tab. For more information, refer to [System Configuration](.Edit_System_Configuration_v7.1PrivateBeta). 


