# .Zone Types v7.1PrivateBeta

OnApp reinforces the role of the types for compute, data store, network and backup server zones. The following norms apply to existing and new zones and resources:

-   All individual resources (compute resources, data stores, backup servers, and networks) should be assigned to zones. Unassigned resources cannot be used for virtual server creation.
-   All compute, data store, network and backup server zones have their type which cannot be changed. The zone's type also defines the type of the resources assigned to it. All [VMware Cloud Director](https://devopsdocs.onapp.com/display/VCD) related resources have the VPC type.
-   Resources can be moved from one zone to another, but the zones should be of the same type. For example, you can move a data store from a data store zone of the Virtual type to another zone of the Virtual type. However, such a data store cannot be moved to a zone of the VPC type.
-   Networks, data stores, and backup servers can only be assigned to compute zones and compute resources of the same type. For example, a network from the Virtual type network zone can be assigned only to a compute zone of the Virtual type.

Below you can find tables that demonstrate the available zone types depending on the resource type:

-   **Compute Resources and Zones
    **

    | Compute Resource Type | Compute Zone Type |
    |-----------------------|-------------------|
    | KVM                   | Virtual/Smart     |
    | VMware                | Virtual           |
    | VMware Cloud Director | VPC               |

<!-- -->

-   **Data Stores and Data Store Zones
    **

    | Data Store Type       | Data Store Zone Type |
    |-----------------------|----------------------|
    | LVM                   | Virtual/Smart        |
    | Integrated Storage    | Virtual/Smart        |
    | SolidFire             | Virtual/Smart        |
    | VMware Cloud Director | VPC                  |
    | VMware                | Virtual              |

<!-- -->

-   **Networks and Network Zones
    **

    | Network Type          | Network Zone Type       |
    |-----------------------|-------------------------|
    | VMware Cloud Director | VPC                     |
    | Other                 | Virtual/Smart/Baremetal |

<!-- -->

-   **Backup Servers and Backup Server Zones
    **The backups server zones are available for the Virtual and the Smart server type. Any backup server can be added to a zone of either type. Once the backup server is added to a zone of a certain type it can be assigned to a backup server zone, compute resource, or compute zone of that type only.
-   **Backup Resources and Backup Resource Zones
    **The backup resource zones are available for the Virtual server type. The backup resource uses a plugin that enables to integrate OnApp with a third-party backup system. Once the backup resource is added to the backup resource zone, the later should be assigned to a compute zone that includes a compute resource on which run virtual servers that should be backed up. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------


